review_title	review_content	movie_rating
 How cost the lie? 	This film is a beautifully made anti-Soviet and anti-Russian propaganda. How cost the lie? You can see the cost of this HBO Series to understand how much. 20% of the film is true facts and 80% hypocritical lies. The art of the producers is how the true facts are subtly woven into the web of lies. People who have never seen documentary films about this catastrophe will never be able to determine this fact.Some facts - Legasov was not a physicist, he was a chemist! At that time, the Soviet Union was dry law and therefore no one could give a soldier or other worked people the vodka! Legasov's report at the IAEA was never challenged by anyone until now.Scherbina was an engineer by education, she was in charge of the energy sector of the Soviet industry and therefore knew the structure of the nuclear power plant well.Both Shcherbina and Legasov were communists (they were members of the Communist Party), and also were the elite of Soviet society, and therefore, as shown in the film, they could not communicate disrespectfully among themselves. Scientists in Soviet society greatly respected scientists.Legasov and Shcherbina did not attend the trial and therefore did not reveal any "truth"."The bridge of death" - that was what the locals called him before the explosion, because a motorcyclist died in this place several years ago. And it was just a local story. Since the explosion occurred at 2 am, no one came to the bridge, everyone was asleep !!!! Check this facts himself and know how cost the lie.	1
 Too Many Scientific Inaccuracies 	I cannot give this show a good review for one reason and that is due to historical and scientific inaccuracies. This show will only serve to further enhance the public fear of nuclear power and will lead to people fighting against a technology that is cleaner and safer than any other on the planet.	1
 It's terrible that people are able to believe such a mediocre lie 	I lived in the Soviet Union, I live in Russia, I was much interested in this tragedy. And I keep worrying that someone perceives it as having at least some relationship to the truth. In each frame a lie, people act and talk is not even close as the Soviet people, something that was, in reality, is not even close to the attitude to what is shown in the series. Everything's a lie, I feel sorry for the people who are so blatantly cheating, trying to replace the truth with emotion. This series is exclusively anti-Russian propaganda, in everything. Even the colors of the frames are such as to cause negative emotions. The plot is mediocre, as well as the game actors. People's behavior looks like they are from another planet, the Russians are not like that. You try to cheat in every frame and every fact.	1
 How did this get good reviews? 	Call me a conspiracy theorist, but reading down all the 10 star reviews and most of them are 'I'm russian' or 'I work in a nuclear power plant' or 'I'm from ukraine'... frankly I call BS!!Started to watch this, honestly after 20 minutes the terrible acting was annoying me almost as much as the fact everyone sounded like they were in a 1960s English sitcom. Surely getting some actors who actually sound Russian would have helped?Anyway, very disappointed. Shame was looking forward to this	1
 Lie about everything 	Lie about most things. Dead tolls, radiation levels, involved ppl etc etc. If you want to know real story - use other sources.	1
 Diversity Hipocrisy from HBO 	If the first world country (U. S) so aching to bring it's ''first world'' problems ( like diversity) to the rest of the world, Why soviets for some reason suddenly became brits? If you do real life events of people and countries outside of America and UK, you should get their actors who can deliver job as well as yours would do.FX half-did it with ''Americans'', NETFLIX did it with ''Narcos''. Chernobyl should have Ukranian and Russian cast. Double standarts from american tv corps.	1
 Lie for the sake of entertainment 	I'm more than convinced that Chernobyl is a stunning portrayal of the disaster which is in fact mostly forgotten now in modern Russia with all its heroes and villains. And I'm as a person who was somehow involved and somewhat suffered from the events really grateful for the attempt to remind the world of the tragedy which left a bleeding wound in our hearts.Yet despite the great work of telling that story I'm bitterly upset by the fact that it fails to tell the truth, which is ironical given the statements that creators was making promoting the movie. The truth here fell the victim of the entertainment.My only regret is for people who lost their lives saving others only to be stigmatised by the modern dull, stereotypical propaganda.	1
 Why is it become so popular to believe in lie today? 	Before watching this series, you should see the reaction of really living people now about the tragedy of those days. Those people who really lived and worked there. The series contains too much false information, so many effects for raising views. This is a tragedy, it is not for hype. There are so many reports with people about this series on YouTube, with real miners, with real people. They all laugh at the show as one! How could human stories be so distorted! If you understand the Russian language - my advice to you: go and see better the footage from the interview AFTER the release of the film. Just thanks to such a deceitful series, people tell how everything happened in the REALLY ACT.Verdict - this series is insanely disgusting. As Russian I found that series the worst series I have ever seen.P.S. Never let foreigners show the events of your country without consulting historians and eyewitnesses, if your task is to shoot a good film that it would really be a shame to advise others.	1
 This movie definitely deserves 1 star. 	Great job on details on hairstyles of women, some clothes, interior elements. This gets .5 star. Another .5 start is for identity of old buildings that haven't functioned for more than 30 years. Unfortunately, the writer demonstrated zero understanding of the soviet system. He put way too many idiotic scenes and broken logical lines. Too many scenes created through the prism of the American mentality and the mentality of a person who grew up in a capitalist system. That's why those scenes are laughable. Btw, Actors did a good job.	1
 Anti-USSR movie 	Typical western-world propaganda about how bad USSR was. My father was there and I can state that a lot of things from movie are real lie.	1
 Why's it in English?? 	Couldn't get past the 1st episode. I found it so inauthentic being in English, actors unable to even pronounce their russian name properly :/ That completely killed it for me	1
 It's flawed in serious ways, and contains a Mary Sue character. 	There are a few fatal flaws with the show which I will outline:1) The female character who 'figures everything out' and saves millions of lives is pure fiction, and based on an amalgam of three male scientists, which is what I've read in a number of articles. (Without knowing anything and watching it, I suspected her character was fiction.)For this, I take off 6 points.2) It needed more character development in the beginning. We're thrown into the thrust of the disaster, without hardly knowing any of these people. Remove three stars for this. Bad storytelling. You need at least an episode to set things up, there's no rush to get to the disaster itself - we know what is coming.For this I remove 2 points.3) Not much time given to explain WHY the disaster happened. The first episode and second could have dealt with this, and showed all the wrong steps that led to it.For this I remove 1 point.I think the rating is high because it does depict a tragic, scary event in a fairly compelling way at first, where the audience begins to feel the fear and gravity of what is unfolding, as characters are not mentally grasping it until later. But I'm a bit surprised at the rating, because it can get a bit boring, too.If the above issues were fixed, I would obviously give it a much higher rating. More care should have gone into crafting the miniseries from a story standpoint, and a Mary Sue should never be used, that is intellectually dishonest and misleading, if you are presenting a real event.	1
 I gave it only 1 star and here is why 	The film invokes strongest emotions and shakes people up with documentary style realism, but the overall storyline is a primitive piece of the cheapest propaganda which you are forced to accept unquestioningly... It took me only a minute of fact checking to realize that the diabolical KGB plot to keep reactor deficiencies a state secret simply didn't exist, and couldn't have existed because it was way out of their league both intellectually and legally. Who in the right mind and in what Universe (or alternate reality) would keep critical nuclear reactor parameters from the very nuclear scientists that run the reactors (all 16 of them)?.. And that is the major secret uncovered by non-existing female nuclear physicist who comes out of the blue and starts investigating the disaster! That is just plain UNREAL. It is very sad to see that even such Tragedies do not stop artists from disseminating utter BS.	1
 Undermined by ideology 	Overall solid. They obviously tried to ensure historical accuracy of all characters and the timeline of events. However, one thing - and a big thing - is the invention of an entirely fictional character, Ulana Khomyuk. She is the only one who can reasonably be described as fully competent, interested in the greater good, brave and who avoids a larger catastrophe. This is even more jarring when contrasted with the historical veracity of *all* other characters portrayed. The only good thing is that she is so over the top good and Mary Sue that people will research her character - only to learn that she never existed. As Adam Higginbotham - an actual expert on the disaster - points out, it is curious that her character is based on the composite of three male scientists, two of them reactor experts who found the cause of the disaster basically immediately.So overall, this had the potential to be a good show, but it was completely - and needlessly - ruined by pushing a hateful ideology.The invention of the ahistorical character compromises the integrity of the show and is - frankly - offensive to the thousands of people who died in this disaster and the actual heroes who will now remain nameless.	1
 Felt embarrassingly phoney to me 	I cant understand people raving about this ? two eps in i went searching for why it felt so cliched overwritten plodding laboured and just...made up. I soon found all the reasons this feels phoney, because it is. Just Google what did the hbo mini series Chernobyl get wrong. Yeah i know nothing about Chernobyl folks but i know a piece of crap when i see one and this is that. Comparing this to the creation of BB and Sopranos is just absurd.	1
 How it has such good reviews is beyond me 	Watching Brits pretend to be Ukrainians without doing any dialogue work or taking any care to pronounce things correctly is bad enough... But the Camera work and the editing!!! It is so bad . Such a shame that this was the direction the show took. The story is there. The writing is good. The set dec is good the locations are great. The History revealed but it all falls apart. The acting is Lazy. The camera work equivalent to a first year film student (Shaky and inconsistent framing) and the editor likely had no training at all. Breaking rules should happen in film. However you need to know the rules first.	1
 Slow and boring! Overrated show. 	I think the only reason this show is getting positive reviews is because it is based on one of the most horrifying true events that had happened till date. Apart from that, there is nothing special about it. Hardly anything interesting ever happens. It is so very slow inspite of being just 5 episodes long. I seriously don't get how literally everyone is giving this show above 9 rating. There are so many better shows than this. Utopia, Dark to name a few. It probably would have been more intriguing if it was an actual documentary.	1
 So bad it hurts 	Renck should be disarmed and deported to Madonna vids for as long as he lives. So much potential of doing something great and end up with a stiffs like Skarsgard & co. Looks like a Swedish television production, and no that's not a good thing. Propaganda written all over. Do not waste your time.	1
 overrated trash 	So boring, dumb characters, slow-moving plot. actually funny seeing the high ratings and 'BeSt ShOw EvEr' reviews. i guess people have grown accustomed to horrible shows such as this and HBO's other disaster (which shall not be named) to actually consider this any good.	1
 Boring, pointless 	Started really well in the first episode and seemed to live up to the hype. Then all of these pointless 'human stories' started, which were poorly written and poorly acted. The characters were hollow and I didn't care at all about any of them. Nothing was happening and it just dragged on and on, which is not a feeling you expect from a five episode mini series. If it was three and a half episodes shorter it would have been spot on but with how boring it was I didn't get to the end of episode 4. The English accents were also rubbish.	1
 Overrated 	Hugely overrated, fake hype.Its a normal TV Show. It ain't bad nor great, its normal. Everything about it is normal, from acting to script. Don't understand the hype, don't people learn about Chernobyl in School?	1
 Revised my Rating from 10 to 1 after Fact-Checking!!! 	Medical Fiction & only planting False Fears in our Population (Well made & enjoyable as a Melodrama... but completely undermined by the False Medical Effects and completely Epidemiologically Unaware Statistics)	1
 American propaganda filled series which is also super overrated 	This is one of the most overrated propaganda filled series out there which is also very successful in showing their awful lies, this series is trying so hard to be an anti communist series which makes it as bad as it seem, visuals are superb but its grayed by the way they portrait what they want bad and what they want good i would love to see a series about crimes britian did to humanity and races which would never happen because they never does anything wrong according to themselves.	1
 99% inaccurate, horrible acting, poorly paced 	Filled with terrible acting, completely false events, and 0 science. The central plot claims to be spearheading science over misinformation while in actuality not even taking the time to read a single real account or report of the situation. This show is filled with more misinformation about the event than even the Soviet Union provided at the time.	1
 Is it so hard to find Russian actors? 	Don't understand why it's so hard to find real russian-speaking actors for this. otherwise, just don't make it at all. genghis khan played by john wayne. a half-asian played by emma stone. cultural appropriation lives on..	1
 Yeah, no. 	As i expected, pure propaganda. Can't continue watching it. The acting is decent, but the agenda behind it is what makes most of it irrelevant. USSR was clearly no picnic, bit the way they are presented here is disgusting. For example, the decision to evacuate it did not take this long. In fact the evacuation was ordered as soon as they saw that the high level of radiation can not be contained. Did they try to cover it up? Of course. World powers always try to cover their problems. This never changes. However they did not sacrafice their people for it.I know i will get a lot of minuses here, i always do when i call out propaganda shows. But don't let that fool you into thinking that this is a documentary.	2
 A piece of anti-Soviet propaganda mingled with a real story 	The events surrounding Chernobyl nuclear power plant catastrophe deserve honest and unbiased account.Yet, despite all these years since the events, nothing of sorts made it to the film screens. HBO's Chernobyl is no exception.The movie uses real events as a pretext to weave in fictional characters, events that didn't happen, as well as skew some of the real events to suite the director's vision.Examples: Legasov's notes were never secretly dumped into trash, Khomyuk character never existed, the Bridge of Death is an invented event, helicopter never crashed when dumping sand and boron onto exposed reactor (this happened much later when helicopter crashed into a crane that was installing the Shelter), there was no suicide mission to drain the water tanks, the Pripyat evacuation was not delayed, etc.So many intentional inaccuracies and lies.During Chernobyl events there were a lot of mistakes made, there were right decisions made, yet TV series focus is all black. Tens of thousands of engineers, specialists, able citizens, from all over Soviet Union, volunteered to help in Chernobyl clean-up effort, TV series never talks about that.The director's vision is to portray Soviet government as monsters, and Soviet people as backward brutes. This alone is an insult to the unprecedented and heroic effort undertaken by liquidators of the Chernobyl accident consequences.On a side note, kudos to the props team: the cloth, items, buildings, furniture and the surroundings are very close the to the mid 80s Soviet Union. Even some cast looks somewhat like 80s Soviet citizens, not all of them, by far, yet it still shows an effort taken.I will wait for much more truthful movie adaptation of the Chernobyl events, the HBO Chernobyl series deserves 2/10 from my perspective.P. S.: I love how everyone downs vodka at every turn, like it's water. In the height of the Gorbachev's dry law campaign, yeah, right.	2
 Find out the truth! Not in this movie... 	Find out the truth! Not in this movie... I lived in Pripyat. I watched 2 episodes, I couldn't go on. It's lousy to look at a lie, especially a lie 'from the evil one'!The next day, April 26, 1986, I stood with the boys 500 meters from the reactor and watched the smoke coming down from the roof. We walked through the forest, which turned red a year later, and watched the squirrels, one by one, run away... on the ground. And so, after watching the first episode, I asked myself the question: ,, how am I still alive?'. I turned 11 in 1986. So much fear was put on. After 33 years. What for? Yes, everything is terrible, and radiation has claimed the lives and health of millions. But that's not the point of this movie's horror stories. Here they stupidly show the planet of the apes, who took up the atom.Blame the Soviet system? I am afraid to imagine what would happen if the accident occurred in the period after the collapse of the USSR. It seems to me that there would just be panic, chaos, and as always: we don't have money in the budget for this. Ukraine itself would not have coped with a catastrophe of this level. Modern Ukraine, the EU, and the USA, including, forgetting now about the liquidators and victims of the Chernobyl accident, only prove this. God forbid, this is today, thousands of people would have been buried there at once.Then the evacuation was so organized that I still admire the Soviet discipline.And I was very offended by the scene at the bridge. They showed Pripyat residents with some poor hanuriks. Remember for the future the false sensation racers from the West: young families lived in Pripyat, intelligent People, friendly, united by interests and ideas, cheerful and without doping! And it would never occur to anyone to go to the bridge, in fact, outside the city, at night, with half a liter. You know that there is a small theft in this city and the whole city already knew about it. There was such a wall newspaper in the city "Do not pass by". There were photos of drunks hanging there. Few people wanted to become famous throughout the city in this way. Americans, this city is your dream that you will not come true! Alas, we already have too...Fishermen at night could be both on the cold and on the warm channel (this is at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant). They could have seen the explosion. And so, everyone was sleeping, an atomic sleep. At night, an aunt called, worked in touch. They were raised for alerts. She said, they say, close the windows, an accident. No one took this information seriously. We slept on...One plus of such a noise around this sludge, from the directors who tried to throw mud again, and not show the truth: they gave the hero to the liquidators, who really deserved it. After 33 years. Thanks to the film for that! Connoisseurs of those who did not value their health for the sake of our valuable life!	2
 Over the top drama 	Good that HBO got lots of peoples attention to this disaster but the series story is over the top drama. Instead of wasting 7 hours in this series, please watch BBC documentary about same, much better than this over the top drama. Most annoying thing is the story telling and direction is same as the BBC documentary. Don't know how people dont see this as a mediocre.	2
 totally overrated 	Predictable boring almost self indulging.Mediocre acting. Totally overrated. I expected much more but found it very disappointing. Almost an anti-Russia propaganda movie .Many long flat sections in the movie.	2
 If you have a great story 	Why destroy it by inventing a plot that never occured, a true fake "based on reality" production. What a sad waste.	2
 Language discrepancy! 	Not sure why the creators of series like this think that audiences who are expecting authenticity will get past the fact that every "Ukrainian" or "Russian" in the film is speaking British accented English. The signs are all in the Cyrillic alphabet, everyone has Russian surnames, but we are expected to ignore all that and listen to the actors all speaking English from a British Public School. This requires too much effort and is totally distracting. Why not use Russian speaking actors with subtitles. That would have been so much more palatable! This seems to be a very common method in European productions where actors from another country pretend to be natives of the country in which the series is made. So, we have German actors pretending to be Italians, surrounded by Italian signage yet speaking in German, and vice versa. Seriously?I really tried to stretch my imagination to the limit but somehow hearing Comrade Dyalenko speaking in Public School accented English just did not cut it. So much better is the foundational aspect of the event was adapted and set in the UK....it would have been the same element of fantasy required, except the language would then have matched the geography!	2
 English accent 	Hyper-realistic, with too strong English accent. Wish they did with more natives.	2
 Disappointing 	An important historical event such as Chernobyl deserves a compelling narrative. This screenplay has no momentum.	2
 Uninvolving - they should have just made it a fictional account of a British incident 	For me the skill I value above all else in TV and film is IMMERSION. To make me forget that I'm watching a production and believe for a moment i'm there.When it's a tragic incident this is even more important, as we are witnessing an account of real people that were injured and died.This show does not give me that. At all. The intrusive music, swish direction, slow-motion dramatics all takes me out the immersion - and makes me feel like we're watching a disaster movie from the 1990s.The worst thing - by a mile - is that they're all British. This was an incident in the Ukraine. Why is everyone acting like they're in Britain? I pushes the show into absurdity. I'm not saying it all has to be foreign language with subtitles, but The Americans was a great example of using real foreign language actors so that when they even spoke in English you felt it was realistic.The actors you could lift out of any generic BBC police drama - the head of the control room feels like the police boss. The questioning in the 'interrogation' room was absurd and they were seconds away from going "You're nicked!".They should have just made it a fictional account of a UK nuclear disaster and avoided most of the issues above.I'll give it two points as set design wise, it looks great.	2
 Chernobyl 	Well, I cannot believe HBO threw so much money at this project! The first big thing that destroyed it for me was the fact they were speaking English at a nuclear reactor in Ukraine!! Americans!! Unbelievable!!!! The acting was poor apart from the guy who hung himself!! Very disappointing	2
 OVERATED. BORING. I give 2 stars becasue way too slow not whether is accurate or not, or propaganda. 	I can't believe it has a 9.4 rating!A 2 hour movie would have been more enough to tell the story.Acting was good why I give it 2 stars instead of 1.	2
 Russian Cheffs? 	It´s a permanent question for me : Why americans think the rest of the world is less smart than them? Every place in the world never be like USA. Well, England is the same old thing. United Kingdom (Reino Unido en español, le decimos Reino Hundido) has the same egocentric way of thinking about themselves. This Mini series is typical from them. Nothing new at last. THE WORST : That PAUL RITTER comedian , never,never a solid actor with that dumby walk style and that dumby face we can´t think of him as a serious man. The cast looks like a Cheffs Troupe from a cheapy russian restaurant. What a bad look and what a bad choice of the starring roles .PLEASE , NEVER HIRE THAT PAUL RITTER AGAIN	2
 My opinion 	Interesting story, that's why I watched it, but I didn't like it.Smoke. Established in Ukraine/Russia , they speak English.Smoke some more , talk a lot and nothing happens.Good representation for the victims that's why I rate it 2. Sorry the bad review.	2
 It's a show, not a real story 	The rating of this show was very promising. However, the hopes were not justified. The series has nothing to do with the real story. It was created on the materials of the Western press and permeated with hatred for the Soviet Union, so that the Western audience kept all its stereotypes. The main idea is that the authorities of the Soviet Union were more terrible than the Chernobyl disaster. Fortunately people who have experienced all the horrors of this disaster are still alive. And they gradually begin to express their opinion about this show. First of all, nobody worked at gunpoint. The second, all received iodine, other drugs. Third, no one blocked the evacuation, on the contrary, it was organized, albeit not immediately, because authorities did not understand the complexity of the situation. Fourth, none of the workers were interested in the first place, how much money they will receive for the elimination of consequences. These were not those times. When there was a disaster (accidents, earthquakes, etc.), thousands of volunteers came and helped. Fifth, none of the authorities did not communicate with the workers hiding behind the soldiers. All ministers came out of the people and were part of it. Just read their biographies on Wiki. Sixth, no one drank vodka while working there. A dry law was declared there. The entire population was evacuated, shops are closed. There was nowhere to buy vodka even if you would wanted to. But dining rooms were organized for workers, where very good food was offered. No one lived in horrible tents, no one ate bad food, no one drank vodka all the time. There was no fear, no looting, no working at gunpoint. In the film, nuclear power plant workers are shown absolutely incompetent specialists who roam like zombies and do not know what to do. Dyatlov just ran into the bunker saving his life. This was far from this. Just today, because of this disaster, we know more and see more problems and ways to avoid them. These people (scientists, workers, engineers, military) were real heroes. And those who worked there, and those who eliminated the consequences of the accident. The series shows the dirt, sloppiness, drunkenness. And dirty walls and heating batteries even in the hospital. I'm sorry, but I don't think such a story can be described as real.	3
 Just don't get the hype.. 	I watched 4 1/2 episodes of this due to friends basically forcing me to, and I do not understand the hype. It is so boring from start to finish. Yes it is well shot, yes it's pretty to look at, and yes it tells an important story, I understand all of that. What I don't understand is how this has became the "best show of all time" when I fell asleep watching it numerous times. What happened at Chernobyl was a tragedy, and I have 0 doubt that the story was told as well as it possibly could be in this series. With that said, this having almost a 10 on IMDB just makes no sense to me, and I've spoken to several people who agree that it's just a super boring show that should have been done in 3 episodes instead of 5, it just drug on way too long. I hope it eventually comes down to where it belongs, which is nowhere near the top.	3
 If you tell a lie big enough and keep repeating it, people will eventually come to believe it 	Series about american people in soviet decorations. Great filmed, very good Chernobyl decorations, and lots of absolutely idiotic propaganda. The only plus I see - is that people, interested in Chernobyl tragedy history thanks to this series maybe will go further, and learn more about it from documental sources and real videos about great heroic and intelligent people(including most of management), real specialists and fans of their job. This tv series tells part of true about events and technical reasons of tradegy, and absolutely lies about all involved people. You can say that my words are not supported by arguments, but it's too mutch lie in this creation to describe it here. Who wants can find all on internet."If you tell a lie big enough and keep repeating it, people will eventually come to believe it" (Joseph Goebbels)	3
 There are many documentaries about Chernobyl 	Better watch Zero hour documentary from Discovery Channel (2004), it's great and do not have fictional characters like Ulana Khomyuk.	3
 Surprised, but not in a good way! 	At time of writing, Chernobyl has the highest IMDB rating in the history of television and film. So at time of writing, Chernobyl is ranked as the greatest thing to ever grace the screen... Ok, I knew it was never going to live up to that inflated rating, but I expected it to be at least brilliant. IT ISN'T.I have two major, major gripes with the apparent greatest production of all time -1. It didn't engage me. Thats all I ever ask of any film or television program.2. The majority of the characters speak in a London accent. The problem with this is that it is set in Chernobyl which is in the Ukraine. At first I thought these were actual english characters that were working at the plant. I was really surprised that there was so many of them. I then realised that these weren't english characters but were supposed to be Russian/Ukrainian, and in actual fact the actors just can't be bothered to speak in a Russian accent, or we're told not to by the makers. Either way, this is an absolute deal breaker for me. A major turn off. Imagine everybody in Schindler's list speaking in a cockney or scouse accent. Kinda takes away all authentication, right?Chernobyl is not awful. It has a good moody score, good direction. But it is far from great. I feel it's inflated rating will back fire. I expect to see that rating nose dive, as more genuine people watch it and rate it!	3
 3/10 	The idea is good, but done poorly. As always, the devil is in the details. But in the details of this film is very bad. And it's not the actors' fault. Just half the film is prejudice and fiction.	3
 Half truth is worse than a lie. 	Facts turned inside out. It looks like agitation against the USSR. Just watch an interview with the participants. Fortunately, most of them are still alive. For example, type in google "chernobyl asmolov and goblin" (youtube has english subtitles). And by the way, in the USSR at that time there was a prohibition of alcohol. It was very hard to buy vodka. Sad, gray and plays with the facts.	3
 Overrated 	Overrated with mediocre acting and terrible accents, would rather have had subtitles to make it more authentic, don't believe the hype . So many 10/10 reviews make me think that these were done by HBO and sky employees to get subscriptions up especially when the majority of the reviewers have never reviewed anything in the past	3
 Garbage science 	This is a show about Russia's response. Almost all science is garbage and spreads irrational fear of radiation and nuclear reactors.	3
 Slow, badly written 	I give the series credit for doing a series about Chernobyl at all, in hope it will spur people to learn about the incident. It is just badly done. About 25 years ago, I read a U.S. Government report detailing the Chernobyl incident. If you've read government reports, you know the writing is dry, technical, and stiff. That report was far more interesting than this series. The show is badly directed and cut, showing slow action in slow motion; showing people pacing while the action occurs offscreen; etc. The show actually plays down the heroism of many of the plant workers and first responders, which came through clearly in the emotionless report detailing their actions. The report's raw content was enough to deliver a strong emotional impact that has stayed with me these decades. The series does the victims and the world a disservice.	3
 Did this disaster happen in Croydon ?! 	Could they not afford Russian actors ??Why is the English people running about dressed as Austrian bakers. Ffs.Overhyped nonsense.This was as accurate as nothing.	3
 Good PR, mediocre series for the avrg American 	The Russians and BieloRussians give it a 10 for obvious reasons.Besides HBO's PR Department, there is nothing special to this series.	3
 Why are they British? 	Absurd that they made everyone have a British accent. Ruined it for me.	3
 I liked it, but didn't love it.. 	I really appreciate the work that went in to telling the story, I really liked that the effects were very realistic and everything, but I think it's a bit overhyped in my opinion. That could just be because I've studied the whole thing and watched many documentaries over the years that to me it felt over dramatized.. I also was obviously distracted by the fact the Russians didn't sound at all Russian.. nobody even attempted to try to sound Russian..Don't get me wrong, I recommend it.. you will probably enjoy it! it just wasn't exactly for me.. I got pulled in by the hype train and I was into it for a couple of episodes before I lost interest.	3
 amazing acting 	Not what I expected it to be but still worth watching	3
 Ruined by English accents, stereotypes, slow-motion dialogue. 	The variety of English and American accents ruins the telling of a historical event.The dialogue is so awkward, heavily leaning on stereotypes and cliches while moving in slow-motion.Visuals are pretty good....probably not going to get past episode 3.	3
 Nice accurate series, accents of the characters questionable... 	The miniseries is a very good accurate representation of the time and you can understand what the people went through in that time.... However it is extremely distracting that most of the main characters have a strong brittish or american accent.... It does not have to be in russian and ukranian but at least there should be a consistency about the accents but like this it unfortunately destroyed the authenticity of the show...Still watchable though	3
 Accents killed this movie 	Accents ruined this movie from the start. Didn't know Chernobyl was in England fs. First 4 episodes were boring. Last episode was good. Overall trash	3
 It's not a doc 	But most of all, for not saying pure anti communist propaganda from the beggining to the end, it's job is to condemne russians as total insane, stupid, ignorant, negationist and authotitaryans, besides that, there are good action scenes, scenarium, great acting and characters by Emily Watson and Jared Harris..After all, there's a lot of fiction to create all the drama and villany.	3
 predictably depressing..but.. 	What a waste of a Stellar Cast...the utterly miserable and depressingly predictable story line ...never waded. into anger, passion , rage,...all very ...banal...	3
 depressing & predictable... 	No power.. no hope..bi light. whatc a waste of talent ...	3
 What a HUGE letdown 	This series had a story that was neither compelling or satisfying. What a waste of a huge budget. Thrown together scenes that didn't add much to the STORY, which was lacking. It had great promise but fell flat and short. The only thing good in it was Stellen Skarsgards character and acting. Unsure why it rates so high but it's pure drivel.	3
 The writing fails at nearly every single level 	The fact that this miniseries exists and people believe it to be a perhaps embellished, but ultimately accurate depiction of anything that happened in real life is a testament to everything wrong with TV series and the people who consume them. The series gets so many things so absolutely wrong it's a mystery why the writers chose to use the names of actually existing people and places rather than setting the story in an entirely fictional universe.Many of these problems have been pointed out in far more detail in think pieces, but just to quickly summarize the most egregious ones:1) The science depicted is completely wrong, from the magnitude of the disaster to the real effects of radiation on humans. One is only left to wonder how come if the people on the "bridge of death" several kilometers away supposedly died from the effects of radiation, all of the supervisors (who were in the nuclear plant at the time of the accident) survived for decades 2) Many of the events depicted are either complete fabrications, or have been blown out of proportion 3) Of the remaining few that actually did happen, their order is often wrong 4) The Soviet State of the late 80s, while repressive, didn't go around murdering or threatening to murder its own citizens 5) For all the expository scienc-ey talk about rector cores, DNA damage, etc. the real dangers of radiation and nuclear fallout are never properly explained, leaving the viewer wondering what the stakes are and how and why decisions are being taken The most plausible explanation of why the writers chose to twist the facts to such absurd extremes is that if they had done otherwise there wouldn't be a story worth telling, in which case one is left to wonder why would they choose to adapt it in the first place.	4
 INACCURATE 	I'm honestly shocked that this show has such amazing ratings and reviews. I'm Ukrainian and I was so disappointed with how this show had so many inaccuracies.I had to force myself to watch the entire season, because the timeline was so slow and repetitive. I love watching anything about Chernobyl, but this show was such a disappointment. As a Ukrainian, I'm not happy with how this show depicted this tragedy.	4
 made up character for Social justice 	Ulmana khomyuk was created to be a powerful "wahman" to represent the conviction and courage of the two MEN main characters? Way to totally and completely take away from the character and conviction of the two main characters in order to inject a BS SJW feminist narrative. I would have rated this mini series a 8 or 9 has that type of agenda pushing idiocy not corrupted the story. What a fkup!	4
 Dramatic story but absolute fictional nonsense 	The story so extremely well told, with excellent acting and directing. Just a pity that the science is so disgustingly wrong. Like, not even close. I get enhancing for the drama, but stories like this is the reason why we have to argue with people whether the world is round. I encourage you to go read the actual story and take this series for what it is is; mindless entertainment. Do not trust the science.	4
 Most Overrated show in history cuz its already highest rated what a joke 	Thanks to americans and their propaganda against soviet union obviously they're giving it 10/10 and those people who are not americans surely wont like it much as them .. There are many good shows to watch My advice just skip this nonsense	4
 Drama but not reality 	USSR built without safety in mind. Enough is true in the show to give it credibility. But much more is given to fear that is not science based. The radiation burns, radiation sickness, lost pregnancies, etc portrays horror above and beyond reality and stokes fear. And please don't @ me with "well any nuclear death is bad". I just want real science not a dystopian fear.	4
 A bit disappointing 	Great cinematography that creates a sense of realism, but they really should have used Russian actors. The British accents just don't work.	4
 A mix of truth and lies 	The major aim of this production seems to be to preach to the choir of hardcore Western capitalists what they already believed about the USSR and even Socialism in general. In this it obviously succeeded. While the technical aspects of the incident are mostly presented accurately, the malevolence of Soviet officials is comically exaggerated, their unwillingness to request outside help likewise, and there is gross scientific disinformation on the health effects of radiation exposure, introduced just for shock value. All I can hope is that this show made more people web-search "was Chernobyl TV show accurate" than it made blindly up-vote this show on ratings websites.	4
 While great it is NOT accurate. 	Which is a pity.If they had done the science correct it would have been a 10.Otherwise I did enjoy it but it needs to be taken as a fictional drama.If you need to know the science just hit YouTube with either Scot Manley or Thunderf00t as the starting point.	4
 A long documentary and that's all 	You people who gave it 10 stars don't watch too many documentaries, do you? Descovery has oh so many every day, but you watch only HBO and Netflix, no? This mini serie is a long boring documentary about Cernobîl. You could skip to the last episode to see what really happened, otherwise is a waste of time.	4
 Disappointed 	Nice visual details but the acting and how was regized has that british taste and feel, i dont feel that soviet air in their face expressions and tone of the voice. They all look and sound like Boris Johnson. How can you compare this with GoT and Breaking Bad ?! This was a gruesome tragedy and HBO should of treat it with more quality and not making it look like all Discovery and History Channel documentaries.The fake naivety of Valery Legasov, the chrysis in the control room of the reactor, that scene with Babushka monologue when the soldier came to evacuate her, she was acting like John Wick, all that lack of expresion and silent drama, was nothing slavic about this scenes and many others.	4
 Not great, not terrible 3.6 	I give this mini series a 3.6, not great, not terrible. Although it tries to give a more human Insight in what happened at the Chernobyl disaster, it is over dramatised and therefore realism suffers a lot. I find myself thinking over and over again, is this what really happened ? If you realize it's an over dramatization then it's not great, but not terrible.	4
 First time review on IMDB. 	Epic disaster. Unbelievable!!! How's this at 9.4 rating. Except acting n cinematography nothing. 2 stars for Acting & 2 for cinematography.	4
 eh 	Too boring. interesting but slow and lacking in surprises (1 viewing)	4
 Not as good as expected. 6/10 	OK before you get the beating stick out and start waving it about my head just let me get my 10 pence said first. Firstly 6/10 based on a few reasons, it was difficult to follow the names of people significantly involved, more use of their names would have been better to make the ending more understandable. Secondly it has Martin from Friday night dinner in as one of the main suspects, I couldn't take anything seriously without thinking to myself the common phrase of "Martin for christ sake put a shirt on we have guests" and also the druggie lad from skins!! This made the story a little less dramatic for me personally. Both fantastic actors but didn't have the "real" factor about it from episode one onwards. Lastly it wasn't long enough, I wanted to see more about the famalies that refused to stay, the tomb and the elephants foot..All in all a good series, however could have been better. I would recommend to a friend, however "for christ sake Jackie ill put a blood shirt on"	4
 Long some how boring based on real 	The story has low speed and boring on specific times. While it is based on real event, I guess it didn't need a miniseries and a long movie was enough. Cast are all good especially acts and Costume design. The ending was excellent as well.	4
 Beautiful piece contaminated by ideology 	Let me be clear. Cinematographically speaking this miniseries is perfect. It make us engage to the very end. However scientific facts and evidence are dismissed to create a emotionally charged version. There is a lot of intentional mistakes and misrepresentations to reforce the preconceived imaginery of socialist countries in the XX century. Of course there was an attemp at a cover up like it has occured in every sudden catastrophe and as we can see right now in the pandemic we are experiencing. All officials are represented as drunk ignorant murderers minus our valiant protagonists. Evacuation didn't take that long. Fire brigade, doctors, etc were well aware of what radiation was and they were taking iodine tablets from the get go. There is no need to create heroic characters in an already compelling story. No opportunity is missed to critize the URSS like that elder woman scene. The focus should be on the heroic workers who voluntarily sacrified their lives to save the world. However puppies control got more screen time that the labor of the fire brigade in the inmediate hours of the explosion. I wonder why.	4
 Flawed series 	Probably if I hadn't seen so much about the Pripyat nuclear accident, my rating of this series would have been higher.I remember when I was very young to hear my grandmother disgusted talking about Chernobyl nuclear accident. In the Spanish Civil War my grandparents were refugees in Crimea, so Ukraine was their second home. They even tried to adopt children, but this wasn't easy and couldn't ever be done.I happened to be really concerned about nuclear energy, always seeking the truth. There is a dilemma, because nuclear fision is the most dangerous in case of accident, but otherwise believe it or not is the less pollutant of the most extended ones. Except, of course, the natural renewable energy and the future nuclear fusion.I was very curious to see this, and people never stopped talking about it since it came out in Netflix. Specially because it was all around Valeri Legásov. Because of his suicide, not many footage or information is held about him in documentaries, and to me this was the strongest achievement they could have done. My first impression was of a letdown, because my expectations were maybe really high, but there was so much to talk about and only six slow going episodes.My reference is specially 2006's french docummentary "La bataille de Tchernobyl" not to say more docummentaries and data I've seen for many years.I'm not saying the docummentary is better than 2019's Chernobyl, which it is, but that's not what matters. What is important is that the information here leaves the series as an inaccurate approach for many reasons I will try to write down:1.- Legásov knows it all. Starting with the most annoying of all, as many of the things weren't even known back then. There isn't even a reunion of all the most important russian scientists, just this man knows it all with detail and he leads all. He doesn't even need a meter to know how many röentgens are anywere.2.- Too many licenses were taken. Where is Igor Kostin? Vladimir Greveniuk? Nikolay Antoshkin? Vassili Nesterenko? real heroes left out. And who is Ulana Khomyuk? People like Lyudmilla Ignatenko or Dyatlov coworkers expressed the lack of accuracy. Anatoly Dyatlov, Gorbachov and company are represented like mindless evil people, it's beyond ridiculous. Very little respect for many people that some of then aren't in this world anymore.3.- Cheap sensacionalism. The people suffering so fast at the hospital, people on the bridge, naked miners, the guy falling onto contaminated water, the divers death... things that never happened, as if the situation wasn't dramatic enough.So much potential wasted. There were so many details untapped... There are good things to be said about the Chernobyl 2019 series, the acting is good and the recreation of the reactor 4 (never been there) for all the pictures and footage I've seen looks horribly accurate and believable, but not the rest of the facts.Therefore, I cannot recommend this series, not because there aren't good things, but because of the misinformation. Go watch instead "La bataille de Tchernobyl", much more accurate, much more compelling and much, much more scarier.	4
 The movie is far from thuth. A lot of fake info to create a drama... 	These reviews only show how naive people are... And how easy it is to manipulate them as long as you can make a good movie :)Movie contains a lot of fake events, persons, accidents for extra dramma... Out of THOUSANDS of people working around the reactors about 100 shown any sings of radiation damage to their health. For over 20 years exactly 34 people of this group died... Almost half of them died for reasons not connected to the "disaster" iteself (car accidents etc.).Showing a helicopter crushing due to radiation was the most annoying scene I guess - you can check the original videos: the helicopter hit the crane with it's wing.According to witnesses there were several people on the bridge and they all survived watching the "explosion" of the reactor. If 95%+ of the reactor workers survived, how could all the people on the brigde die? That's such nonsense...Russians left no workers inside the reactor - they carried all the living people outside.The explosion wasn't even half as big as the show presented.I could go on and on... But it has no point. People just saw a movie and they gonna believe it's accurate without any further investigation because that's how most people think: it looks good then it must be truth...	5
 Unfortunate 	I very much enjoyed Chernobyl, it was gripping drama, interesting science and the settings and acting were great.But, after watching it I did a bit of fact checking. One of the central themes of the show is the importance of truth--but the show itself is mostly disinformation about a tragic, important event. Dramatic license I can understand--but this is too much and seems disrespectful to all involved.So, watch it for the drama, but don't believe a word; not even the "facts" at the end, which are weasel-worded and misleading.A missed opportunity to do good by telling the truth.	5
 It 's good but overrated!!! 	It is a strong show but the fact that they chose to portray all the scientists that handled the crisis in one person really took me out of it!!! I kept thinking why are we not seeing a big team of scientists conferring? It felt like a movie instead of real events, it was so unrealistic seeing one hero instead of what would actually happen!!!	5
 Too much lies. 	Along with the veracity of the events themselves, the authors absolutely lie about the USSR. Too much propaganda husk. Vodka, matryoshka, earflap, bear! Hello from Russia :)) Filmed well and authentic. But do not believe this farce completely.	5
 Starts off good but later lacks suspense and becomes quite boring 	I started watching this and was hooked on the first episode. 10/10 very easily for both the first and second episode, the third still very good. The fourth episode for me was very dull and uneventful, lots of dialogue and scenes curated to try and pull at your heart strings. I stopped watching 10 minutes into the fifth episode, it was just so dull and uneventful, just too much dialogue and no suspenseful scenes such as the ones which originated in the first episode which were incredible.This show starts off at a high pace with lots of well written scenes and suspense, but then simmers down very fast after the third episode.	5
 Great job, but problems with historical truth 	After the first episode.Great directors job, great shots and great arts.But really surprised how it is possible for the authors to use in the story the most speculative cliches of soviet propaganda . Dyatlov like an antogonist? U serious? Yes Dyatlov was rigid (rough?stern?) -- but he wasn't an idiot. Legasov (the part of the system) like a protagonist? Legasov who advocated his bosses (the main "authors" of Chernobyl) -- Aleksandrov (the head of RBMK-reactor project) and Dollezhal (a chief designer of RBMK-reactor) in IAEA (INSAG-1 report in 1986)?English director and american scriptwriter continued the soviet "regime" lies. Amazing.P.S. hope the next episodes will open the story in another light.	5
 Cinema version of truth divided by total lies about USSR period of Chernobyl disaster. 	This serial is somewhat nice - by details, by native look of the time when Chernobyl nuclear station disaster has happened... yet it has many notions and - most of them are total lies and twisting of the facts of what's really happened.You can visit youtube, find the evidence of _real_ ppl who worked on that station - removing radioactive elements from the top of semi-destructed block#4, seazing the fire toward other blocks of the Chernobyl station - you can turn english translation and see what _real_ ppl say about these series, about _lies_ has been shown in this cinema...You know, lies are faster being consumed when they're mixed with truly facts...If these series were made as TOTAL LIES version - they wouldn't get so high rating here on IMBD :) Think about it.	5
 Bangers & Mash...Chernobyl Style! 	Come on now, really? Was Chernobyl good enough to win an Emmy? Apparently so because that is what in fact it just did. First of all I was just put off by the British accents. The production team asked the Brit actors to "take the edge off" their British accents...really? Also saying they didn't want the actors portraying Russian accents to get in the way. Well if they are good actors then it shouldn't be that big of a deal one would think. Most films I've seen where actors speak English with a German or Russian accent seem to give the film credibility.So with that said Chernobyl is a story that needs to be told and remembered. Good cinematography and editing.	5
 No need to dig into someone else's underwear, when your laundry long stank 	For such a slap in the face of Russians, it is imperative to also create a series of 5 parts, but about the truth of the flights of Americans to the "Moon". Will he score as many points?) Americans and british love to seek out the truth from others, but for some reason never at home !!! Therefore, the feeling of watching is twofold. The series would be good if it did not have a secret intent under it - to expose the Soviet people as irresponsible slackers, who cannot be trusted. "What is a lie worth?" This expression must first glue on the forehead of all the Anglo-Saxons!!!!!!!!!!ps the expression "Comrade" was very funny to listen to. ps2 I had to send Armstrong with my friends to the roof. He is an expert in this, since he maintained much greater radiation and is still alive)))	5
 WHY ALL THE FUSS?! 	There's something very fishy going on here. I've only watched 1 episode but already I can see that the characters aren't great, the acting is average, the scrptings nothing special and the cinematography not mind blowing. But the BIGGEST thing is... No WAY is this better than Breaking Bad, Better Call Saul, The Wire, The Sopranos or any other of the hundreds of other amazing shows. maybe it picks up in EPs 2+3 but I wouldn't put this above 100 other shows. Seriously. And I know my stuff. What is going on with all these 10 reviews!?!? Something stinks here IMDab.	5
 Filmed very well, but greatly fictionalized 	I enjoyed this series, the acting is superb! However, I didn't watch it as a history lesson, nor should anyone take this series as 100% truth. With that being said a vast majority of this series was conjured and fictionalized. People will watch this and take it as gospel. I urge those that do watch this to charge themselves to research the true events of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster and not base it strictly on this series. The biggest fear pushing move was the fact that this series portrayed nuclear radiation as some sort of infectious virus. The plastic walls used on the heavily radiated workers that were ill, were for their own protection since their immune systems were compromised, not to prevent the spread of a radiation virus. Please research the truth for yourselves!	5
 Well made, but 50% fiction 	Fantastically well made, but like others have pointed out, this series is not historically accurate. I suspect the changes / fabrications are to make it more effective as anti-nuclear propaganda?The 3 stars are for good acting, cinematography and direction. 2 stars for doing an awesome job of portraying life in the USSR, with lots of authentic details. However since the script is mostly made up and a distortion of an important part of history, I have to warn people not to take this seriously and just view it as entertainment. Take for example the "bridge of death". It's a debunked urban myth. No one who were there died.	5
 um 	I haven't managed to get past the first episode because the use of english put me off so badly. it comes off as very inauthentic. as good of a production it may be, that really cheapens the whole thing for me. sorry hollywood try again x	5
 How ironic the movie is a lie as well 	Anyone who has studied the Soviet Union knows they lied and hid many things from the people of their own country, and Chernobyl was the same treatment. However in this mini-series the writers decided to completely make up a character for the movie, and it happens to be a "concerned scientist" Ulana Khomyuk that never existed in real life. This was done to supposedly represent the "scientific community" of the Soviet Union. However having a faked character also turns this into a fake drama, when there was no need to make up anything. The poor reactor design, the sloppy operators, the Soviet bureaucracy that covers up everything to hide the truth, the slow response and lies was more than enough to carry this by itself. Instead they manufactured a hero where none existed. Sort of what like the Soviet Union would do. The mini-series does have an authentic look to it, with good dialog and corrupt government officials, military people, and judges. Just try not to believe all of it.	5
 Totally over-hyped, from cold-war era USA! 	Visually, this mini series is stunning. That's all there is, though. For me, the first episode was a bit entertaining, the next four were just boring. But I don't take this as much of a negativity - they took a disaster and tried making it into an entertaining show. There's only so much one can do. I'm mostly bothered with the following two major points.1. It all looks like USA propaganda from the cold-war era. Visually, they created a Soviet Union that looks like a world from a Hollywood post-apocalyptic movie. The onl ything we needed was Will Smith and a dog, figthing the evil (Soveits) that was left after humans dissapierd. Every single shot of every single human structure (apart from the presidental palace) looks like nobody has been there for 50 years. Everyting is rusty, dirty, paint falling of, about to fall apart, nothing works. All people are grumpy, angry, mean, dirty, etc. It looks like the makers of this series really wanted to poot horns on these evil communists, but this would be a bit too politically incorrect.2. To me, it comes of as anti-nuclear propaganda. In reality, nuclear technology is the opposite, it's maybe the best source of energy we have, also taking into account impact to the environment and the number of people it directly or indirectly affect in a negative way. After watching this series, nuclear looks like the biggest evil there is. Well, after the Soviets of course.	5
 A disservice to reality 	Chernobyl's portrayal of the nuclear disaster (and radiation danger in general) is nothing less than untruthful. It directly feeds the mainstream belief that anything nuclear energy is some sort of pure evil that will kill millions on a whim, the belief that Chernobyl killed "hundreds of thousands", when modern studies show that it can only have killed dozens at most.This is not due to some Star-Wars-esque disinterest in physics. No, the lengths to which the show makers go to mis-portray radiation include making up hundreds of deaths that never happened, and showcasing radiation as a magical force that instantly melts people's face off, all for the sake of creating more drama. Even a cursory internet search could have enlightened them on the details of how, for example, no one on the famous bridge died to radiation poisoning, but the show makers must have deliberately chosen to enter the realm of fantasy and kill people off who suffered no ill effects in real life.The show is expertly shot, the acting is superb, and the tension is good. But to watch it felt like a promotional video for Greenpeace: a fancy video, filled with misleading factoids and outright lies. For all its craftiness, still no more than an insult to watch.	5
 Turning into a predictable and cheesy snoozefest. 	First episode was strong and then it goes downhill. 2nd episode had a lot of really poorly acted moments and episode 3 was an utter bore. I will change my rating if the episodes increase but wow, there was so much potential that has been wasted. The show has become pretentious and is on its way to becoming a flop. I expected each episode to improve but it hasn't and it's been really disappointing. Please stop forcing emotions out of the viewer and just be genuine. Please stop using shock value to keep us entertained, just have good writing and a good story. Please stop with the teenage drama subplots. This has potential but it is becoming a bust. These next few episodes need to pick up or else the series will turn into dust.	5
 A brilliantly told story that intentionally omits a large piece 	This story of Chernobyl is well told, well acted, and of deep importance. Stories such as this must be told in order for future generations to learn from the faults of the past. And the parallels to climate change are undeniable: an event that has not occurred before with implications for uncountable years to come, battled with denial as a result of fear. This series does a marvelous job of telling the events while showing these connections. But accurately depicting the language and accents, in my opinion, is part of accurately depicting the events and the culture surrounding those events.Despite my great appreciation of this series, I cannot help but be distracted by the choice to use English accents. I read the comments by the creator saying that putting on accents would distract from the acting and that the accent is irrelevant to what's going on in the story. Respectfully, I disagree. If that were the case, then why not just have a made up story resembling Chernobyl but taking place in a made up land, to make it applicable to any time? Why have Gorbachev have an English accent? I find this confusing. I can see some people thinking this event happened in England. Language and accents are part of what puts us in a time and place and adds to the accuracy of events. Would the Nazis be depicted with different accents? Would the events of 9/11 be depicted with George W. Bush having a Chinese accent or even a Boston accent?This series is very well done, but to be a great retelling, I believe there is more that needs to be captured than merely the events.	5
 No Horror scenes, Poor and Untrue story plot, too much Overacting 	Only good thing about this series is its Cinematography. I am not sure about how much of this story is true but from what I have read about this incident its very biased towards some of the characters from the real life and the entire country. The only reason why I watched this series is because of its incredibly high ratings and amazing review written about it. Many people have said that its better than many horror movies which is not true, I didn't find any scene that's scary also I didn't find the story to be that interesting. Only reason why I think this series got such a high rating is because of the political reasons against Russian Government as the effect of the incident was presented in overly exaggerated way. I will suggest that its better to watch something better but If you are interested about this incident than go read the articles or watch some documentary.	5
 I cannot believe everyone is going crazy for THIS. 	I do feel as an odd one out, but guys, please. Yes, this series gives you facts and correct sequences of events. It does show lots of soviet stuff and creates an atmosphere of the time. But 9.7 for this? Seriously? The acting is quite OK, the plot is based on something everyone has heard of, unless you had no idea all of this happened and thus got caught by surprise. It's a very average TV series, that's why I give it a 5. I have not once been glued to my seat in suspense, nor have I cried or related to any of the characters. I honestly had way better time watching The Office.	5
 Good but 	The accents just throw me off. It is funny to see this NOT commented on a lot for this show but every other show where "accents" are just not right they hammer it home. This show while nicely done is distracting to have english blokes named vasily and misha etc. Its too odd - cringy odd. It shows laziness. They said it was to have the actors focus on their role and not the voice acting lol. Come on...I enjoyed the show but was forced to use an alternative language post and that improved it dramatically to a 5. Too many other issues as others have stated however the praise outshines it. Tis fine - we all cannot agree.	5
 Theatric 	Don t get what everybody likes about thuis Oxford englisch speaking russians. Looks like some screenplay in Some town. I get the intention That everybody is holding down to sing like in Les Miserables.	5
 Snooze fest 	Meaning no disrespect to the many who died as a result of the lies and inaction during this event, this mini series bores me.	5
 Why do Russians have to have an English accent? 	I had given it 8 or 9 stars if the whole experience didn't feel so odd. Of course I know about the American obsession with accents. Anything older than 200 years or from a fantasy or fairy tale has to have an English, Australian, or Irish accent, for whatever reason. That's very nice for actors of those countries, who are much more in demand than they would be otherwise.BUT COME ON: Hundreds of Russians, all with distinguished English accents? I thought for stretches that I was watching an 80s BBC series set in Birmingham or Wolverhampton. Partly it was really comical. Not to speak about my Russian girlfriend who couldn't stop laughing about the various English accents which came virtually from everywhere and everyone. Indeed she would have preferred all actors to fake a Russian accent instead of being "so English" - me too. But at least she confirmed that the written Russian was mostly correct, although simplified and sometimes redundant.	5
 Fairly good, so far. 	The first episode is interesting. I remember when this happened very well. The only problem I am having with the show so far is that out of all of the Soviets that I have seen so far, NONE of them have even a hint of a Slavic accent, British all the way.	5
 Something isn't right here... 	I have never done a 'review' here yet but after seeing HBO's advert on english television about how Chernobyl is the "highest rated tv show on imdb", I thought I'd take a look at some of the reviews here. I have seen the first 3 episodes of Chernobyl so far (because that's as many that have aired so far), and I am really enjoying it albeit the weird mixed British accents do put me off quite badly sometimes. I am, however, not going to rate it until I have seen the whole thing. Reading through the reviews here, you'd think the entire series is some god-sent best series in the entire history of the world, but I assure you it's not nearly as good as the likes of Sopranos or Breaking bad or even Game of Thrones.. I am quite tempted to start calling fake on a lot of these reviews because it just seems so bizarre that they would shout so much praise before the series has finished.. Also, it's only going to be 6 episodes long, so HBO calling it a "tv show" is a bit of a stretch in my opinion.So, to those of you who are suspicious of the current rating of 9.7, you should be. It is most likely to be an almost entirely fabricated promotion with a ton of spin-doctored reviews and ratings. I'll give it a tentative 7/10 right now but let's not get too excited yet, eh?	6
 Mediocre 	Think about this: the show only gets such high score because it's based on an impactful real event. If it were a fictional event, the score would be much lower because the show is just entertaining. And it is not even historically accurate. Not bad, not a master piece.	6
 Great acting and storytelling - but extremely inaccurate 	First of all, who cares about accents and language when the acting is so good? This show is a master class in directing and production design.Unfortunately, it is also wildly inaccurate for a series ostensibly based on factual events. No, a nuclear power plant cannot explode like a thermonuclear bomb! No, a 5 megaton detonation cannot destroy a city 400 km away! No, an accident at single nuclear power plant cannot render most of Europe uninhabitable! No, a melted core cannot poison all water reserves and rivers in the Soviet Union! No, a fetus cannot "absorb" radiation thus "shielding" the mother.Less than 100 people died from the accident during the explosion or from radiation exposure in the subsequent clean up operation. The number of cancer cases caused by the accident is estimated by the UN to be around 4000 overall (of which most will be non-fatal). Compared to the amount of cigarettes smoked and vodka drunk in this series, the effects of long term radiation may be the least of their problems!The personal tragedies and the portrait of the Soviet incompetence and cynicism is more than enough to create a compelling drama, so it is frustrating that the creators of the show felt the need to overdramatize the consequences of the accident. It is doubly sad precisely because the show feels so authentic that most people watching it will come away thinking the Chernobyl accident and nuclear power in itself posed and poses an existential threat to the entire continent. Just look at all the reviews here praising the show's "authenticity". Dramatization is fine up to a point but as a portrayal of an actual event this kind of over dramatization is inexcusable.	6
 Surprisingly accurate (for now) 	When I heard that HBO is making a Chernobyl themed series, my first impression was that it would, in some way, be biased and overshadowed by the indiscreetly anti-Russian present political discourse. However as far as the first episode goes, this was not the impression. Things still might change in the upcoming episodes, though I really hope it would continue on the path of high standards that were set. And they are, for the most part, based on many already published documents, testimonies, memories and facts surrounding the Chernobyl nuclear catastrophe, even to the tiniest details. The fire fighter's uniforms for instance are spot on, as are pretty much all the sets.Authentic filming locations, very solid scriptwriting and a surprisingly high standard of cinematography for a cable series make Chernobyl (so far) a must-see. Sure, English accents spoil the authenticity, but then, this is an international production made for the international market and it works well as such.As for the music... one of Johansson's best.	6
 Good, but not as good as it is hyped up to be. 	Right, well with all the hype that the 2019 HBO mini-series "Chernobyl" have been getting, of course I would also eventually buckle and cave in, giving in to sitting down and watching all 5 episodes.And I ended up watching all 5 episodes in a continuous go; binge watching the entire mini-series. The creator, Craig Mazin, was really good at spellbinding the audience with each episode and leaving you wanting to know and see more, thus you continue on with one episode after another.I was 11 years old when this accident happened, and living in Denmark, we were just mildly affected by the repercussions of the nuclear accident. So it was something that sort of struck a bell with me.This story, while it is tragic and terribly, was also interesting and fascinating at the same time, especially with the way that it was presented throughout the mini-series.There is a great abundance of very nicely cast actors and actresses performing in "Chernobyl", and I must say that especially Jared Harris and Stellan Skarsgård stood out phenomenally. But actually everyone that appeared in the mini-series were nicely cast and put on good performances.But after the third episode, it felt like most of the steam started to vent from the balloon and the mini-series started to loose its iron grip and events became less intense and hard-hitting. But still, it was an enjoyable mini-series from start to end, no doubt about that.Personally, I think the HBO mini-series is hyped up a bit too much, and the high rating is sort of strange to me. Yes, "Chernobyl" was good and entertaining, an enjoyable production for sure, but it was hardly a masterpiece, which the high rating gives way to believe.And after having binge watched all 5 episodes, I doubt that I will ever return to watch "Chernobyl" a second time. While it was interesting and enjoyable, there simply wasn't enough meat to this mini-series that could substantiate a second viewing for me. Already familiar with the storyline and the events, there would be nothing to lure me back a second time.	6
 Propaganda piece 	Honestly the show is beautiful and engaging but a lot of it is pure propaganda. The Chernobyl accident itself killed less than 200 people. There was no dead baby. 80% of the first responders lived through ARS and a lot of the cancer that developed wasnt particularly fatal.If that's still too many dead for you, know that even the show's premise of "this could only happen in Soviet Russia" is really weak compared to the death tolls and environmental damage racked up by American Airlines and BP.The show's clear intent is to deride socialism in an age where the young have become disillusioned by capitalism. After all, what other relevance could a show about the perils of communism have in a post-Soviet world?Also falls real hard on the pathetic trope of showing you who the bad guys are by making a bunch of Soviet soldiers kill a whole lot of dogs. Just in case the audience was still leaning sympathizer I guess??	6
 Great work, but overrated 	Theres no doubt this series tells the story of Chernobyl well, with professional production and acting. Movies or shows based on real events tend to have this bias to them that increases ratings by at least 3 stars, simply because they actually happened.This tv show is very good and worth watching, but is in not comparable to shows like Breaking bad, or Sherlock; movies such as Shawshank Redemption, or The Dark Knight. I understand a shows greatness is subjective, but this film just did not grip me nearly as much as other great ones have.Simply put; Chernobyl seems a very necessary, quality, and educational production to be made, but at 9/10 it's overrated.	6
 Okay 	I found this to be a perfectly fine miniseries and nothing more. The dialogue was nothing special, the characters (besides Dyatlov) weren't memorable, and the story was excessively slow and drawn out. The first and last episodes were great intense looks at what happened in the control room, but the middle 3 episodes are pretty much just the 2 dull scientist leads trying to figure out what happened, it's not exactly gripping storytelling.Likely overrated because it came out at the same time as Game of Thrones season 8.	6
 But slow in the second half and also inaccurate. 	Great first 3 episodes, very tense and interesting, last 3 episodes were quite slow though and just simply not as exciting.There were quite a few inaccuracies, I found it particularly funny they inserted a female character instead of a bunch of scientists, typical Hollywood these days I suppose.Started well, could've been better with some adjustments.	6
 Overhyped 	A reasonable watch, have watched and studied a lot of material on this disaster previously. This is not "the best show" to come from HBO, there have been a number of better ones. Worth a once through watch, but slightly boring, wouldnt watch it over again as i do with some shows. Found some of the sound effects on certain episodes rather irritating while watching rather than tension building. For all the buzz around this miniseries i was excited, but after completing it was left pretty deflated.	6
 Excellent fictional drama/horror disguised as a true story! 	I just finished watching Chernobyl and deliberately didn't research it until after I finished. I wonder if I'd have bothered to watch it if I'd read some of the criticisms about its inaccuracies first! It was a very well made and acted drama and I'd recommend it for its excellent sets and glimpse into life in the USSR at that time but it was so disturbing when you watch it from the point of view that it's all true. I question the wisdom of putting oneself (and others) through that, which surely falls into the same category the film maker is trying to warn against - the dangers of withholding truth! ...Viewer beware!	6
 Well written, well acted, but kinda dull. 	I understand my opinion may not necessarily be a popular one but I cant help but feel as this TV show rolled on and ended it felt a little drawn out and lackluster. Having quite the interest in the actual event that took place many years ago I walked into this series with high expectations, and while I have no doubt this was a hit among others it was not the case in my view. Would I recommend this, definitely, will I remember it or watch it again, probably not.Chernobyl the TV show in my perspective will go down as just another show seen to fill the void, nowhere near bad by any means but nothing I would consider worthy of greatness.	6
 Kinda sorta getting boring 	A lot of these reviews are so fake, this show is not Deserving of a 10/10. First it is capitalizing and making money off of a tragic event that killed scores of humans, plants, animals and caused horrific environmental effects. Picture that for one second before you give me a blind down vote. This show is profitizing off of other people's suffering. Ok now to get to the juicy stuff- it's boring and too lecture-y. It is very repetitive. At some points I fast forward because it becomes tortuous to watch. It is a true self fulfilling prophecy. Please watch with caution but you might want to tape your eyes open ala A Clockwork Orange to stop snoozing from the boredom.	6
 The most overrated mini series of all time 	Yes they've made it very good, the director, actors, and all the staff have done a great job. The original event was a catastrophe and the story is very moving.But, where is the art in this? They just copied the original events, where is the creativity? If they just wanted to tell the truth they could have made a documentary. A TV series or the cinema in general is supposed to be entertaining. No offence but this one was really boring. I'm not talking about the original event, I'm talking about a TV Mini series. I feel most of the people who rated this high were rating it irrationally and emotionally. I'm sure a lot of them are actually from Ukraine and Russia and that area. I respect them and their feelings but this is not the way people are supposed to rate the movies and series. Other people are using these ratings to find enjoyable real entertaining stuff. If this was rated 7 I would never waste my time to watch it. I watched it till the end to see what's all the fuss about. People should learn to rate movies rationally not emotionally. The same is true for the movies that are made from video games. All of them are rated low. For example Silent Hill was really great but just because it wasn't exactly like the game, gamers rated it low. That's not good.	6
 Hollywood version of Chernobyl disaster 	There is a history and there is a Hollywood version of history. In this series they opted for a Hollywood version. I will not complain about the British English, since it has already been criticized here in many reviews. I see people generally don't agree with the language criticism for some reason. Maybe because they don't care or the series has, as usually, created a fan's cult. It is mind boggling to see so many people praising the accuracy of this series while in reality they just barely touched it. I will try to articulate why I stated that.I think the biggest idiotic mistake that the series did was to portray people, who are contaminated with radiation, as contagious. In reality, once a person's skin and clothing are washed, his or her ability to expose others to radiation is eliminated. The protective plastic screens around victims of ARS (Acute Radiation Syndrome), shown in the series, were not for the visitors but for the victims due to their weaker immune system. Portraying them as contagious was dangerous and irresponsible because In case of a similar accident in future, less knowledgeable people will be hesitant to help them. And it's not because of the general perception of people at that time that they portrayed it like that. Even the nurses and nuclear physicist Ulana Khomyuk presented similar views in the series.Another issue with the series was that they added a fictional character of Ulana Khomyuk, who by the way was always right. Why did they add a fictional character when they did so much research for the authenticity of costumes and set design? According to the writer, he wanted to present the Soviet liberties of women. If he wanted to do that, why didn't he just add the character of Maria Protsenko, who was the Sino-Russian Chief architect of Pripyat. She helped vacate the town after the disaster and even stayed, one year after the accident, in the 30-kilometer Exclusion Zone. She also helped the liquidators by creating hand-drawn copies of the maps (It was restricted to get the copier in the USSR). Or Angelina Guskova, who was a surgeon and radiation expert. She established radiation protection standards and medical management guidelines after nuclear accidents. She was in charge of the Moscow hospital which took care of the 132 ARS patients after the disaster.Let me explain to you why it is a bad thing to add fictional characters in a historical series. I watched the series when it was just released. Recently I got the chance to read a book about it. After reading many chapters I didn't find Ulana Khomyuk. When I did some research, I found out that she is a fictional character. I never imagined that a show, which is being praised for historical accuracy in the reviews, could add a totally fictional character. You can just imagine the knowledge of a person whose only research about Chernobyl is this series. For me it's a disservice to the men and women who actually faced that crisis bravely.There is a long list of inaccuracies. The naked miners or the urban legend of helicopter crash over the Bridge of Death. People who are interested in it, can go check the Wikipedia page. I am giving it 6 stars for the actors, special effect and the research they did to present the environment of that era. If you are someone who doesn't care about historical accuracies, this might be the best series. But If you do, just watch it by keeping in mind that a lot of things in this series are fictional.	6
 The show is great but where is the credit for the original? 	The show is beautifully acted and presented, but much of the story and even elements of the script are lifted from a BBC production from 2006.This irks me. for example:"Legasov: It seems there's almost no-one in this room who understands what this means. It's on fire. The graphite moderator, which in itself is just - unbelievably radioactive, and what's left of the fuel core, are on fire. Now, that's about two and a half thousand tons of carbon, which, burning at one ton an hour will burn roughly - for 3 months. And every day that it burns it will send into the atmosphere more radiation than has ever been released in - in all the nuclear accidents that have ever happened anywhere in the world all put together. Every day! For 3 months! You have my word that people that are asleep in their beds in this town tonight have effectively died today. As I speak, radiation is entering the bodies of everybody in this room, everybody outside for hundreds of miles. We can no longer pretend. It's criminal. And - and it's got to stop. And youpointing at Boris Scherbina -Legasov: have got to stop it."Quote from "Surviving Disaster - Chernobyl Nuclear Disaster", BBC, 2006.	6
 A good representation of an actual accident 	It is a good explanation of the unfortunate and sad accident in Chernobyl. I am not sure how much of it is exact but if it is completely based on facts it is very informative. However I really don't get this much hype for it. Am I missing something? Maybe I am but more than what I have said I can't find anything else in which it deserves this much compliment. A 9.7/10 seems certainty an overrated score to me.Do I recommend it? Yes. It is informative and has been well made. But there are many other shows and movies providing this quality and higher. So it is only a higher than average one no more.	6
 So slow and boring 	Quality drama but really slow and boring. I am struggling to finish it to be honest.	6
 What's up with the English accents? 	Good acting, but can't get over the English accents:(	6
 As good as it is...its still just chernobyl 	Its a HBO series, so you know its going to be good. And it does not disappoint, quality at every level.Series dips hard after ep2, the pacing slows down and it becomes extremely dramatic.As great as it is to have a quality docutainment on chernobyl, cant help but sense the anti-russia propaganda aspect of the show.Its worth watching once, as it is quite accurate and just engaging to watch, but you wont see anyone rushing to tell people about that great new series, on such a terrible disaster.Some things should be left in the past and this is definitely one of them, and im from ukraine.	6
 A hit with a few misses 	The show was great. Historical biopic about the nuclear explosion in the Ukraine in 1986. The cover up and the truth. The effect of the radiation and the clean up. The many, many deaths.So why am I not rating it 10/10 like everyone else? 2 major reasons.1. Set in the USSR and 90% of the actors spoke in a British accent. Very confusing and odd. Why couldn't they have had Russian accents or Russian actors? A few subtitles wouldn't have hurt either.2. It was an important story to tell and there was a lot to tell but it was so drawn out. 5 episodes could have been done in 2 or 3. I was very interested in the story but felt bored at times and wanted it to be condensed a bit.The final part with what happened to the people next was very beautifully done and it was great but I can't forgive the accents or the length.The comparison to Game of Thrones is laughable. Apples and Oranges.	6
 The left and their lies 	A stern warning of a show about the horrors of a nuclear meltdown in the Soviet regime and how it was brought about by the idealistically driven dishonesty and collectivistic propaganda of the far left. Wherein the writers shoehorn in their propagandistic Mary Sue-character Khomyuk. The left never learns.	6
 Well made but too many lies 	While this was well made, well acted, well shot, the utter amount of lies ruined it. And it wasn't even the usual Hollywood historical movie lies. Those such as fake people, fake drama, making Soviets and Russians look as ridiculous as possible. Those are overdone by Hollywood and can be expected. But why the lies about radiation? Its not a virus but they constantly treat it like one. Why in the ending credits that are supposed to clarify the truth were there so many lies?This ruined it for me.	6
 Good not great. 	Historically accurate and good acting. But i cant get over russians speaking english with scottish, american and british accents, its so weird. Narcos did it, there is no excuse for hbo.6 out of 10 is more than fair so far..	6
 Loved the season 1 teaser! 	This like many other brilliant shows get going and leave the season open for more. And then they just stop, leaving its fans wanting more. I'm sick of it! You get something as good as this. Look at its ratings, why abandon it now? Shame on you HBO!	6
 Great viewing bit the science is flawed 	On first viewing this excellent and entertaining show I have it full marks. I believed it to be a scientifically accurate account of the disaster. It spurred me to do my own research on the subject and it transpires that too much of the show is over dramatised unfortunately. It's left me feeling a bit duped really.	7
 Good, but not the greatest show ever 	I liked the show, but don't quite understand the hype. This is an interesting mini series and there is some good acting, but my husband fell asleep several times. I can understand why, because after the first episode it really is quite slow with a lot of talking. There are parts that drag, and the variety of accents is a bit odd. Once you notice that, it's hard not to notice it. Overall, a good show as long as your expectations aren't out of the world.	7
 It's not a documentary, stop expecting one... 	I'm so sick of the babies having tantrums about historical accuracy or that it's not in Russian. It's not a documentary. Like of course it's dramatised. Of course it's in English. Land your expectations back on earth and just review it for what it is, instead of crying about what it isn't.	7
 Not a single house will stand for long without a strong foundation. 	The events in Chernobyl showed in practice how terrible the consequences of the negligence of a person giving orders could be. Undoubtedly the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant occurred through the fault of selfish people. Without even realizing it, they doomed thousands of people to death and disease. But who were these people?This series deserves compliments for its attitude to details, high-quality shooting and the play of actors. Is this the TV show of the year? Unfortunately, I can not call him that. Not for nothing I drew an analogy with the foundation of the house in the table of contents. This series has a foundation, but the foundation was designed by a very inexperienced engineer. This engineer looked from afar at the foundation he wanted to repeat when building his house and tried very hard to do everything right, but unfortunately he could not."What is the price of a lie?", This series asks us a question. On the subject of this question, you can argue for a long time and find real stories or invent them to interpret the basic meaning of the question. However, the authors chose a catastrophe in Chernobyl and this was the most fatal mistake in the "design of the foundation", because of which it was covered with cracks.The fact is that all the main message of the series is based on the moments invented by the writers. The characters are built on these moments, the whole drama is built on these moments. This is a very big mistake."Chernobyl" was supposed to be a show exclusively about the negligence of the manager, at that time, the reactor staff and the courage of all those who saved the whole continent, but not about lies and struggle against the state.The very "artistic conventions" turned the brave people who saved the world into intimidated bastards, who have to choose: to save the whole world or not to get a bullet from their own state. "The artistic conventions" are so huge that in order to see them you will need to "step back ":1. Legasov was not the "central" character of those events, he was only a link in a huge chain. He did not beg the government to evacuate, he didn't work alone (Homyuk doesn't count: the real prototypes that included in she are not the three people who worked in team with Legasov), he didn't make everyone "move" and moreover he didn't persuade everyone that it is dangerous. The KGB never "pressed" on him (source: decryption of Legasov's tapes. It also indirectly proves that he did not hide the tapes, and his memoirs "went" to all the institutes after his report in Vienna). There are several theories why Legasov committed suicide: 1 - fear of radiation sickness; 2 - harassment among colleagues who envied Legasov's success after his report in Vienna. Dyatlov did not see pieces of graphite on the ground, and after the accident he walked around the unit two times, but did not understand what had happened. Dyatlov left the station by ambulance, it tells that all the time he was at the station.2. People in high positions did not sit on their hands: immediately after a few hours after the accident, teams were formed for possible elimination of consequences and evacuation of people and they were formed simultaneously with the formation of the "Legasov team". The high ranks immediately knew about the danger and no scientist persuaded them. None of the higher ranks had the right to face the death penalty, especially Shcherbina, who served as deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers of the USSR and had no relation to the judicial system, and for the behavior shown in the series, could lose his post.3. Immediately after the disaster, the Chernobyl nuclear power plant sent a signal "1, 2, 3, 4", which indicated that the station had all the possible dangers, including radiation, that is, people understood what they were going. The day after the accident, all the TV channels of the USSR were told about the catastrophe. During the liquidation, documentaries were filmed and shown to the population of the USSR on television. Where is the "big lie" that is said in the series?How now, knowing how everything was in reality, do you see the characters of the series? The above facts have an "absolute" influence on how events would unfold, so their distortion leads to a distortion of the whole event and its perception. These are the facts that were not worth distorting. These are the very distortions due to which the writers were able to move that event to the plane they need - the plane of lies, when in reality there was no talk of that.What did it lead to? Now everyone will believe that the higher ranks were just sitting out their pants and intimidating everyone with execution while people were dying from radiation, when in reality they were the first to start thinking about solving the problem. Now everyone will think that people were not told about the danger, although in fact they were told almost immediately. Now everyone will believe that people were silenced and forbidden to talk about danger, when in fact the accident was made public in the country almost immediately.Therefore, I call the screenwriters "inexperienced engineers": they turned the meaning of those events, that life lesson upside down. This was done in order to get into the main message of the film: "The Price of Lie", but it turns out to have unexpected consequences. Just like that cherished button AZ-5.Comrade scriptwriters, what is the price of a lie?	7
 Well acted but not as good as the hype! 	The credit for the acting, sensitivity, realism & dramatic scenes is all well earned, and this is definitely worth watching. I truly don't understand the hyperbole however, when the darkness is often nearing tediously misplaced & the dialogue protracted offering no character development. Good but by no means better than Sopranos, The Wire, Sharp Objects, Now They See Us.	7
 Often very good, but flawed nonetheless... 	Not the greatest miniseries ever made like some suggested, but not an overrated pile of manure either, like others have suggested.The 1st two episodes are the best, and the ending of the 2nd one is pretty damn amazing. But the 3rd one drags, and the fourth one isn't much better. Fifth one is very good. I especially like Stellar Skarsgard's character, the uptight bureaucrat that actually weaves his way through the bureaucracy and helps contain the disaster.Problems. Why show the explosion in the last episode in a flashback? They should have started with that. The miners strolling around naked seemed like HBO saying "we need some nudity here". The animal hunt in the fourth episode is drawn out and really doesn't add anything to the goings on. Plus the hunters' dialogue is pretty poor.The dialogue throughout the series is either very good or very poor, depending on which character is talking. In the end, the disaster was a combo of incompetence and bad design. The series infers that only the USSR indulged in coverups, but we all know that isn't true. The USSR is lucky that only one reactor exploded, as several of them had the faulty design that was partially to blame for the disaster.I also disliked the inclusion of Emily Watson's character, who didn't actually exist. She was a combo of real people. Why not show the real heroes? I suspect this was a nod to political correctness, which me no like.As weird as this sounds, the show could have used some gallows humor. Russians and Eastern Europeans have very dark senses of humor.Even though the series is five hours, it feels rushed and should have been longer. Still, worth watching. i also learned a lot about nuclear physics. Most people get their knowledge of nuclear plants from Homer Simpson.And the Russians/Soviets did manage to avert a massive disaster. Yes, it could have been worse. But that doesn't mean much to the million who died :(	7
 A technically-sound, well-delivered beatdown of the Soviet strawman 	"Chernobyl" broadly excels it two things: in the technical aspect, aided by its meticulous and extensive research, lack of fear of getting bogged down in the minutia etc; and in presenting well-written, engaging characters, aided by its compelling, talented cast. It broadly fails in one thing: be a series about the Soviet Union.The Chernobyl accident, its liquidation and investigation of its causes are described in detail. It is easy to pick up many details about the operation of a nuclear reactor or the cleanup of a nuclear accident's aftermath. It's similarly easy to pick up some things about how the Soviet Union operated, how various officials interacted between each other and with the population. And while the former trivia category seems to be broadly correct, the latter is broadly of the comic-book variety, presenting the 1980's USSR as a land still stuck in the 1930s with threats of execution, worries about execution and wanton callousness and incompetence making up the majority of one's daily concerns or activities. Many have elaborated in more detail, including Leonid Bershidskiy in The Moscow Times or Masha Gessen elsewhere, and I recommend taking a look at their articles and keeping them in mind watching the series.Additionally, I'm not too keen on the vast temporal disconnect between the two "control room" episodes - the 1st episode is more confusing than it needs to be without the context of the last one, although the investigation culminating in the trial does present a nice narrative structure, I suppose.	7
 Superheroes of that time!!! 	HBO once again proved that they can do the best TV shows in the world, everything is so truthful and detailed, with respect to people who committed suicide for the save of other people that my blood was boiling in my veins, thanks for the great and atmospheric story! I hope that such a catastrophe will never happen again.	7
 An innocent goof or an outdated dirty cold war propaganda trick? 	I watched this miniseries and found it excellent - despite a few goofs and exaggerations here and there, which might be excusable for varying reasons.In the second episode, timing of the detection of the incident and some measures taken in the Western World, and that of the evacuation of Pripyat are wrong. First, the process of evacuation decision and its approval by the authorities in Moscow, which actually took place next night (26-27 April), when buses were also sent from Kiev, was completely omitted.Instead, Shcherbina is falsely shown receiving a phone call next morning (27 April) and sharing the information with Legasov that the Swedish and US authorities have learned all about the accident and that "they are not letting children play outside in Frankfurt" shown in striking contrast with children on the streets of Pripyat. And immediately after that, evacuation buses are shown arriving at 14:00 and beginning to evacuate the town straightaway.In fact, the Forsmark Nuclear Power Plant in Sweden first detected the extraordinarily high levels of radiation next morning (28 April), Moscow TV broadcast the first news about Chernobyl on that evening and, furthermore, things like closure of children's playgrounds in Frankfurt region (1600 kilometers away) took place only at least a week later in May 1986.So there's no such thing like the Soviet authorities cared about the children in their country less than the West German authorities cared about the children in their country at the time of Chernobyl as depicted in the second episode.What a disappointment at the end of such an otherwise very good film, like the other miniseries "When They See US" which in turn reveals the dark side of the state bureaucracy in the United States.This (and many other minor issues) could perhaps have been avoided if this otherwise very fine miniseries were co-produced with people from Ukraine or Russia as well. The Cold War is over, remember? It's time we all realize we now live in an era of multi-polar world, an era of globalization.	7
 Well Made, And Sobering. Though Maybe Falls Short Of The Masterpiece We Have Been Led To Believe That It Is. 	I cannot speak to the accuracy of what is presented in Chernobyl. All I can attest to is its entertainment value. The series should leave you sobered and saddened. Episode 5 is especially powerful and emotional. Overall it is quite well made, though it maybe falls short of the masterpiece we have been led to believe that it is.	7
 Watch it, it's good, just not quite as good as the hype. 	Informative, shocking and well acted. It is a good series. It fell short of the "hype" for me and was drawn out and slow in several places but I would recommend a watch if someone was struggling to find a new series to binge.	7
 This show is haunted 	Rating: 7.9Favorite Episode: Vichnaya PamyatA haunted dramatization of Chernobyl. The mood was consistently dark and the cinematography and score were A-tier. This show explained nuclear physics well enough you don't even need any prior knowledge. The themes around the price of lies and propaganda were also well-executed. However, since this is a dramatization there were "Hollywood moments": in reality there was never a threat of a "thermal explosion", radiation burns aren't as skin meltingly severe as depicted in Ignatenko, the bridge of death is largely a myth etc, see my TV shows rated and reviewed list to get a link to historically accurate accounts. Lastly, I did find it a little slow in places and wasn't moved by its slow-burn shock value, (the more shocking you find it the more you'll enjoy it). But overall but it's good, despite not having the highest entertainment value.	7
 Some of the best tv in history, a shame about ep 3/4. 	The tensity, the mystery, its brilliant. The lead up to the hanging. The cat being fed. The smoke staying lit as he cracks his neck. Its amazing stuff.Straight into the power plant explosion as nervous and confused residents stare at a nuclear dust cloud. The panic and confusion in the control room as the 'core is on fire'. The tone is what kept me watching. The horror at seeing all of these people oblivious to the situation they were in. The fire brigade tasting metal. As the scenes become more orange with toxic nuclear waste. It a way its worse than a zombie film. Its an outbreak of something much worse and quiet, something no one could see coming. Its terrifying and uncomfortable to watch with more and more displaying signs of nuclear poisoning all whilst their general, puts his pawns to fall to the explosion, calling them delusional and downplaying everything.The pure evil of ignorance is on full display when people in power, who think they know it all are told by those who ACTUALLY, know what they are talking about, fail to listen to the red flags. The brilliance of this show is that we know what the outcome was with chernobyl. So it feels like a second watch even on the first time. Its so brutal and tense with the ambience. Even when words are not spoken, you hear unsettling noises to fill the emptiness.The debris of nuclear waste engulfing the local area of pripyat, is powerful, birds dying at the end of the first episode to display what is to come sums the show up perfectly.The phone line being cut and the endless ring from the operator in the beginning of episode 2 sets the tone again very well. The first iffy bit is the plot armour of the fire fighters wife getting past an array of guards at the hospital. She would have been stopped... everything is dealt with in a very soviet union stoic, manner. Its very tough to watch but also startling at how much of a disaster this was both environmental and man made. The meeting 10 minutes into episode 2 is painful to watch. The russians carring more about looking weak, making sure that the foreign press arent told instead of worrying about lives at risk really sums the evil nature of the people incharge at this time. Another moment, where the nuclear physicist warns the man in charge of Chernobyl and when he disregards, she mentions his background was of that in a shoe factory. Again further proof that those in charge knew nothing of what they were doing. Again at every turn, choosing to believe the delusion of concrete being on fire rather than graphite.The revelation of the vast impact the world could have seen makes this show so interesting, because we also know this didn't happen so how did it not? It unbelievably intriguing. 3 people having to go and die, creates a human story, which Chernobyl manages to do superbly. The radiation ticking away, louder and louder as the men get closer to their slow painful deaths. It's powerful. And depressing. Not to mention tense and anxiety inducing.The third episode is here and my least favourite character, the wife looking for her firefighter husband does everything shes told not to and ends up hugging her radio active husband. I hate human stupidity so this is clearly my least favourite part of the show. I dont believe someone can be that stupid. AND SHE CONTINUES TO BE STUPID. Later in the episode the doctor tells her to LEAVE, and she stays and goes into see the husband looking like he's been dug up past 8 weeks of death. AND SHES PREGNANT. But not anymore thanks to the amount of touching going on. This third episode is a little weaker, a little more characters discovering happenings rather we the audience, so its a little less exciting. It's also hard to watch, the firefighters rapidly degenerating in front of us. Finishing this episode , it feels made by a different writer or director. It starts off with the three guys treading water and ends with a random woman grieving their loss of their husband, i know they are trying to humanise the occurrence, but with annoying character? Im not sure about that. Shes the only one that reminds me Im watching a show and not actual people going through hell. It tries to play off sad but the episode comes off as quite brutal and slow at the same time.The revelation, that dyatlov was running a test, valery, knew that the az-5 button didnt worm but was told by the kgb to keep it quiet, all is predictably eastern world. But it doesnt stop it from being powerfully shocking. The episode involving the shooting of animals, didnt need a whole episode, but still a necessity of the story so its fine, hard to watch. The court in the final episode where valery reveals the truth and the kgb tell him in a prison cell that nothing he said in court will be published, meaning it was for nothing, explains the very first scene in the show were a man hangs himself after recording tapes. It was so good that I went and watched the scene again, as a way to finish the show, showcasing his sacrifice to the world being okay again.The high points are met with lows in the 3rd and 4th episodes that balances the shows rating to a 7. I would probably watch it again with somebody, so i can see them experiencing the truth too. It would be a damn shame if you already knew what had happened because much of the suspension would be gone. Its a tense, thrilling, evil ride that has its low points but i would recommend.	7
 Love it. 	This was a breathtaking dramatisation of the horrors and chaos following a nuclear power plant disaster. It was 6 hours spanned over 5 weeks and compulsive viewing. Every programme in this series rattled my conscience in a way that few have in the past. Like so many people, I thought I had a fairly good idea of what happened following this nuclear power plant tragedy in 1986. But, on reflection, after watching this series, I realize I didn't.The set depicting the Soviet Union at that time, the cast of actors playing the main characters, and very realistically portrayed.	7
 Good, but not living up to its aspirations 	The story the miniseries covers could not be more compelling or terrifying. The series captures the dread and terror very well and is certainly compelling cinema. However, even accounting for some artistic liberties, an accurate turn by turn depiction of events it is not. If one reads the gripping accounts of historical events, such as Grigori Medvedev - The Truth About Chernobyl or Adam Higgiinbotham - Midnight In Chernobyl and watches original footage of the aftermath, as in the excellent documentary The Battle for Chernobyl, it becomes clear that the depictions are far, far away from historical accuracy. That may or may not matter to you, but it does for me. Much more so as it was billed as historically accurate. Soviet leadership was in the dark during the early hours, as local leadership deliberately downplayed the magnitude of what happened. The incompetence, the stalling, the disbelief and denial by those who were on site, all swept under the rug. Even though BBC's Seconds from Disaster docudrama had given a blueprint, which - oddly enough - the miniseries references in specific cinematic moments. There are scenes where the cinematography conveys in pictures a stylized version of the primal fears instilled in us of deadly radiation, but it tends to revel in these moments too much. The look on the firefighter's face gazing into the inferno, the general in his chemical warfare suit being decontaminated, the ridiculous plume above the reactor (it wasn't dense black smoke but an innocent looking thin white smoke wafting over the reactor). Sometimes the seemingly innocent looking surroundings of a beautiful and unusually warm spring surrounding radiation fields that could kill a human within a minute is more terrifying. Sometimes, less is more. It is this almost cartoonish exaggeration that bothers me the most.	7
 masterpiece of film but a horrifying propaganda piece spreading misinformation and fearmongering 	The HBO miniseries Chernobyl presents an indulging tale of drama and horror. The first episode (of five in total) especially gripped me with its consistently building tension. The episodes were well paced, the acting phenomenal and the cinematography stunning. So overall I can only recommend it to everyone. It was long since I enjoyed watching a series as much as I liked watching Chernobyl. And it led me to investigate more about the accident and its fallout.Doing so however led me to discover that the miniseries, in retrospect, has a huge amount of fearmongering in it. This reaches from exaggerations to blatant misinformation about the situation. Now normally if a show is not as accurate, it wouldn't be a big deal. A short version of history that also wants to be compelling is bound to bend the truth at least a little here and there. You know, the cost of truthfulness have to be paid in order to have a narratively cohesive work of art that tries to capture people and not bore them to death. Normally everyone understands that, I think, however the HBO's miniseries Chernobyl has such a high production value and paid a lot of attention to detail many people believe that the miniseries presents a well-informed unbiased view of the events, which in fact it does not. There are many things wrong in this series which all seem to go into the direction of making the disaster and nuclear energy look worse (so it doesnt just randomly gets things wrong here or there but it seems more deliberate), which lead to people being misinformed about radiation and Chernobyl, which consequently can lead to many people making bad decisions for their lives and others.These claims are for example: misreporting the actual death counts, stating unverified stories as fact (the bridge of death), stating physically impossible speculation as fact (the molten core thermos nuclear explosion), exaggerating the effects radiation has on the human body, misinformation about ARS( these kinds of untruths of unborn babies getting "infected" actually led to approx. 1 million unnecessary abortion in Europe after the Chernobyl accident and many children without parents suffering from ARS were rejected by society because people believed that they could "spread" their illness), not actually understanding how the nuclear reactor of Chernobyl works (their whole demonstration with the control rods and the reason they think the control rods are designed like that is utterly uninformed) and basically not giving any perspective of the situation but only focusing on the individuals that suffers (would you have guessed that 106 out of 134 first responders who got acute radiation sickness (ARS) survived it and some are still living to this day?).As you can see, some of the believes that the HBO miniseries teaches can be quite harmful and are solely based on unscientific fear about radiation and nuclear power. Not to mention that the rejection of nuclear power today (which is one of the cleanest, safest, cheapest and best energy sources) and the consequent use of coal and gas, prolongs the reduction of carbon gases and will lead to a larger fallout of global warming, which is part due to propaganda pieces such as this.So in conclusion the HBO Chernobyl series is a masterpiece of film but a horrifying propaganda piece which probably leads to opinions and believes that hurt people much more than the actually Chernobyl disaster ever could.	7
 Political but entertaining.. 	If you love thrill then there is no,if you love mystery there is little but if you love emotional drama then you should watch it.Season goes very smooth with good direction and acting and with very realistic effects.Watched it because it was highly rated and due to recomendation by friends,though series is entertaining but historical accuracy is way lesser than people expect.	7
 Unsurprinsgly grim and difficult to stomach, yet still wholly captivating 	This series is timely for many reasons, and I personally found it captivating. For those of us (from afar) who lived through the events via media, this was a very black & white story at the coalface of what happened. It's honest, despite the difficulty of the subject matter & themes, and it will not be a series that some will be able to make it all the way through.Short at five episodes, it's balanced correctly the length to tell the story of the disaster, the impact on the victims, the survivors, the apparatics, the scientists and so on. The acting is phenomenally good, but also so is the direction. There are also some incredible stand out scenes which I'm sure certain big name directors are wishing they'd have done it first.Very educational and very intelligent. The producers deserve a lot of credit for their part and courage to create this without resorting to any cliche. A fine series and one that will be oft watched for many years to come.	7
 Holded me back 	I have to say this show has me enticed and gripped in cast, storyline and atmosphere. Brilliantly portrayed from an obviously unsettling incident. Not many series has me gripped, only gravitate towards series that sturs something inside, like Game of Thrones, Breaking bad, Sons of Anarchy, Vikings. I put this is in that catergory, as those shows because it has such a powerful storyline and it grips onto that fascination deep inside. It leaves you so gripped that you long to find out what happens in next episode. Love the atmospheric soundtrack by the way. To cover one point made as a criticism by others..i think its perfect how it is..yes the actors have a strong English accent..but i think you would find if those cast members tried desperately hard to put on a russian accent there would be even thicker criticism. I am going to highly recommend this to family and friends, as they know i will always recommend epic shows. An amazing series i think deserves high praise for brilliance.	7
 What happened at Chernobyl: a tragic and harrowing tale 	A concise yet poignant mini-series, Chernobyl is a dramatized account of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster of 1986. It covers the events leading up to the reactor explosion, the immediate aftermath and relief efforts, the long-term adverse impacts as well as the post-accident fault-finding and finger-pointing.The show's biggest strength is its ability to focus on the human elements of the calamity while also distilling technical concepts to a level understandable to general audiences. Some creative and artistic liberties have been taken but the narrative is largely kept true to the facts; the depiction of the bureaucracy and secrecy so characteristic of the Soviet Union is especially notable. Despite having relatively short screen times, the characters are compelling thanks to the writing and acting. And the cinematography, the editing, the score and soundtrack, the directing ... all of these are phenomenal at creating scenes so full of tension and dread.Personally, I wish the content had been presented in a chronological order instead of leaving a lot of the backstory to be shown during the trial deposition in the last episode. I also contend that there were better means to portray the cost of the tragedy than by briefly introducing new characters engaged in "animal control" or by inventing a pregnant firefighter's wife. Additionally, inclusion of schematics or diagrams may have been beneficial to illustrate scientific principles and demonstrate the feasibility (or lack thereof) of proposed containment measures.Despite these criticisms, Chernobyl is a gripping and insightful piece about a terrible catastrophe whose harmful effects remain very much in evidence. The show's fidelity to reality and its excellent production quality are instrumental in its consideration as one of the best mini-series of all time.	7
 Reality check 	Felt compelled to write a review after seeing all the fuss about it being the "highest rated tv show". First point - the source material. It's not original so cannot be compared to original works like breaking bad, soprano's, the wire etc. It's a retelling of historical events. Hardly a creative masterpiece. Think about it people. Second point - it's five episodes. Sustain it for 5 seasons and we'll talk about "best tv show ever". Third - Yes, the accents. Seriously? And people rave about it being authentic. Fourth - being 5 episodes, character development takes a hit. Can't say I was emotionally attached to any character. I should have been (given the severity of what was going on) but yet I wasn't. Biggest "feels" were for the old lady in the barn when her cow got shot.As a mini-series, it's fine. A good watch, nicely shot if a little slow-paced. But don't fall for the hype. For the people rating it 10/10 - have a word with yourselves please.	7
 A must seen series 	I have some issues with the series..mostly the script and the pace, but really it doesn't matter. It is a good production with stellar cast and it fulfills its purpose well, which is to tell the story of the Chernobyl accident. Sure, most of us in Europe over 40y we know what happened, most of the things shown in this series didn't surprise us. However next generations or people around the world don't know and they must learn what happened there. They must learn about the dangers of nuclear power but most of all about the danger of a government (or corporate in other parts of the world) trying to build cheap reactors or hide the truth from people without any respect for human life or/and the environment. My only complain is that I feel they should had devoted more time to the liquidators and to the impact the accident had to the lives of millions in the following years.extra credits for the amazing music..	7
 Great doco style but lacks depth 	Whilst the series is highly engaging in the early episodes they never really develop the characters and we never understand their motives or emotions. Also, whilst they spend the last episode explaining the technical aspects of the possible causes we really don't get all the sub plots and motivations, both during the actual event and in the review of it many years later.The casting, sets, cinematography, styling etc is excellent! My only gripe is that I would have preferred Russian audio with subtitles to really create a feeling of authenticity.Bottom line is that the series is interesting and very realistic but it serves as great documentary rather than engaging and relatable dramatic entertainment.	7
 Should of used Russian speaking actors 	I'm sorry guys. This would have been so much better if they used Russian actors with subtitles. I am struggling to get past the actors with English accents. It's ruining it for me.	7
 2019 propaganda 	This show is in no way a 9/10. I dont know exactly how these things work but there is a certain machine that makes some shows and some movies on the front row of the media attention, especially on the social media then. I dont know how it starts, maybe with a good trailer. After that someone pays someone to write a good review in an esteemed magazine or website and then the youtubers take it over, having read about it in that magazine, it must be that amazing..so they go on and make videos about how the show is amazing (bet many of them didnt even watch it). Next step is comment section: the fans of the youtubers ofc blindly just accept the review of their favorite and write positive comments. And in no time you have the whole internet infected with something that isnt true at all, or very little so. I think I just answered my own question. Nice. Anyway, about the actual show: its ok, average. I prefer to watch Project blue book over this one any time. Chernobyl is watchable. No way it deserves more than 6. No way.	7
 Emotionally drained... 	I'm Russian, my father went to Chernobyl as a physicist quite a while after the explosion (a few years). However, he is still shocked of what he has seen over there. I think he will love this TV series...Anyway, I want to say that this is incredible. I've seen just two episodes and I can't find words to describe how emotionally deep is this film... The details of the Soviet life that are shown in this TV series are incredible. I can't imagine how hard was it to get to this level. It must have been a deep research with tons of interviews. Besides the details, the filmmaking and the music - absolutely unbelievable. Thank you for this. This is one of the best things I've ever seen in my life.	8
 Vichnaya Pamyat 	In the Ukrainian language, "Vichnaya Pamyat", means "eternal memory". I was surpriced, that showrunners, named last episode in transliteration, surpriced in good way. It reminds me my school years, my first school show, in 6th grade - about Chernobyl. I was stunned, back then. Every time I read, or watch, or listen about Chernobyl, I got emotional, just because I was young and also, because I was young, I didn't understand everything that happened in 1986. And last episode just reminds me why I should. For memory, for "pamyat".And I'm thankfull to watch this. Because we still, living in the world, or better say "part of world", where truth is nothing more than a word. Yesterday, 5 years old little boy, Ukrainian boy, died in clinic. He died because of two drunk policemen (and probably because of 14 years old son, of one of these cops) who had fun and kiled him with their gun. And you know what? The gun is oddly "disappered" and these mureders could get away with. But not this time, people won't let it happen. So you're wondering now, why I wrote about this kid? Because suffering. Common people always suffering because of authority. Like today, like 33 years ago. Same. But in some day, it will be changed. I believe in it. We will come for them, for every of them and they will pay. And the only way is - to remember. Remember everything, every insult, every tragedy and fight for the truth! That's how I felt when I ended up watching it, with much gratitude for those, who fought then, who gave me the opportunity to live freedom, healthy and I will remember it.	8
 amazing 	Good.This show is scary and awesome. The first two episodes especially are absolutely brilliant, and terrifying. There is a lot to love here. Easily one of the highest quality tv shows ever made.	8
 Great 	Outstanding direction, script, score, photography, production. Most of the acting is good. There are a couple of licenses here and there, but they're warranted by the dramatic purposes of a 5-hours long show. They explain beautifully what happened. There's an eerie atmosphere over the whole running time, and I watched the first two episodes again right the next day. Kudos. 8.5 stars.	8
 It's going to change the way you look at your governments. 	A must watch mini web series. Great performances. Greatly presented. It will surely give you a chill. It will give you different view of the Unfortunate Chernobyl disaster. You are going to realise what a big human mistake looks like and what it costs. I had heard about Chernobyl right from my childhood but never got such a perspective. The main thing about this series is that it is going to make you give a thought about how and what our governments can do to hide their misdeeds. It will definitely change your attitude towards your respective governments. So please watch.	8
 Solid but ruined by cold war stereotypes and lack of true insight 	While the show is solid, and has some strong points, and some artistic liberties can be granted (English speaking does not really matter, its OK even to introduce a fictional character to represent many scientists), it turns too many times into a western cold-war propaganda caricature that is almost rac ist in its pandering to the worst and most insulting prejudice. Yes, Soviet system was broken, but not in a way they portray. The elite apparatchiks were not some low class bully thugs that threatened to throw an elite academic out of the helicopter (that more accurately portrays US marines dealing with some captured Vietcong soldiers, but can you imagine USA secretary of energy threatening Feynman during Challenger investigations in such a way - well, notwithstanding Soviet corruption, neither it was realistic in the Soviet system). The incompetence of the Soviet people was way overstated, some key plot points are insultingly invented. While the reality of the problems in Soviet Union were perhaps too subtle for the western audiences and directors and writers of the series (that are obviously marinated in anti-Russian prejudice, that blurred their "vision"), the crudity of the portrayal of the problems that caused the disaster is laughable.Still, the series has some authenticity to it. Decision to portray Soviet living standard in a more realistic way than usual (hence avoid propaganda at least there), as well as some authentic facts that survived the rac ist bias of series' authors almost by accident, are strong points. The series has a sinister feel, though still a bit ruined by some liberties that authors took for entertainment purposes. While falls a bit short of shows like Breaking Bad etc, the series is pretty captivating for all but the dum best of viewers. The killing of pets scenes are hard to watch as are scenes of suffering, but the horrors were based at least on the reality.Hence if taken with a grain of salt, and understanding that many events were plain invented for the purpose of drama and pandering to anti-Russian and anti -Soviet sentiment and bias, on the expense of authenticity, it still does show some sympathy for the ordinary men, and at least makes an effort to give a captivating, if biased and limited by the overwhelming intellectual shortcomings of its authors, account of the events. Worth a watch, but beware of the fake authenticity claims.	8
 An wonderfully crafted piece of TV 	This was so good that I have watched it now more than once.Excellent acting across the board, and the story is well-paced and generally focuses on the most interesting and relevant parts of this incredible story. It manages to balance the facts and scientific explanations very well against the human side of the story, so that the story feels informative, real, emotive and engaging, yet steers clear of excess melodrama (mostly).There was one obvious miss though. I removed one star because of the unnecessarily over-long segment about shooting dogs, which was the only section of this whole drama that I felt was clearly "screen-written". It felt like cheap and totally unnecessary emotional manipulation. You can fast forward this entire section and not miss it at all, which is what I did on my second viewing.In my view, if that entire superfluous section was simply edited out entirely this would be almost perfect television.	8
 Not a documentary 	This was a very good drama, which nonetheless plays pretty fast and loose with some facts in order to build dramatic tension. Which is fine; it's not a documentary. I just hope people don't believe that this is the absolute truth.The book "Midnight in Chernobyl" by Adam Higginbotham, which was released a few months before this show aired, paints a more well rounded (or perhaps complicated) picture.Chernobyl's civil defense chief, Serafim Vorobyev, made clear as early as 3-4 am that the reactor has exploded, something which was confirmed by tests taken by Chernobyl's department of nuclear safety at 8 am. I understand that the way the show portrayed events made for a better drama, but don't take it as absolute truth.In the TV series Dyatlov is an almost cartoonishly evil and incompetent figure and Legasov near saintlike. I understand they had to take some dramatic license, all dramas need their protagonist and antagonist, just don't take it as absolute truth. Judging from the book it's no doubt that Dyatlov was a tough and demanding boss, but not as unfair and willing to lay blame at anyone but himself as in the show. As for Legasov, the speech at the trial never happened. His change of heart seemed to have come from not so much as a radically changed outlook on the Soviet Union and its nuclear power, but it seemingly had more to do with his loss of status as he was viewed as being too entrenched with the ancien régime by a new generation of scientists. Again, it doesn't make for an effective drama so I ac understand why the filmmakers decided to change it. But again, just don't take it as absolute truth.As for the show's Legasov's claim that the flaw inherent in the RBMK reactors would be covered up by the Soviet leadership it doesn't make much sense. By the time the trial began all 15 remaining RMBK reactors had been subjected to an extensive technical refit proposed in a Politburo resolution passed in July 1986. Again, it makes for a compelling drama, just don't take it as absolute truth.A very effective drama, well acted, well constructed. Just don't confuse it for a documentary.	8
 It happened.... 	I watched the second episode, and I may be a grown man of 72 years and it made me cry... My thoughts were with the thousands of people already affected and the fate of those already dying. It is a very powerful show. No one will come out of it unaffected.Nuclear power is NOT something we need to use, not now, not after Chernobyl and Fukushima.... There are NO safeguards when something goes wrong. History has taught us that no matter how prepared we think we are, there will always be the unforeseen. Everyone should watch this terrific piece of history which so far has been well done by HBO. If I could give it a 20, I would, simply for its historical value.	8
 Amazing, but pretty overrated 	This is a pretty nice show, no doubt. It represents very well what happened with amazing cinematography, setting, acting and tense moments. The fact that it's a true story strengthens the dramatic scenes even more. There is not that much propaganda and I liked that very much. I enjoyed it, it was satisfying. What I don't understand is how the hell it is the top rated show of all time. In my opinion it is just a regular show, nothing that special. It is certainly not better than GoT (despite the controversial last season) and Breaking Bad, both of them having plenty of seasons, which are all amazing. That's years of hard work and professionalism. So I think it's such a pitty and extremely unfair that Chernobyl is better than these shows (and so many others) according to the IMDb rating.	8
 amazing 	There's very little not to like herethe cinematography is brilliant....it helps tell a huge chunk of the storythere's a period in the middle where it almost lost me...circling around what it had already established...but it quickly snatches itself out of ityou can't take away nothing from this show....it's marvelous.	8
 The closest one to the truth !! 	HBO's "Chernobyl" is a stunning fictionalised dramatisation of the events that followed after the nuclear power plant disaster in Ukraine, filled with horrors and chaos. Every programme in this series rattled my conscience in a way that few have in the past. By reading Wikipedia & other online articles over the years, I thought to have a fair understanding of the unfortunate events in 1986. But the HBO mini series adds light to a lot of materials which is not available online, thanks to their research. The series offers on platter a very detailed depiction of the nuclear debacle.My heart goes to the people of Pripyat, who were uprooted overnight when a massive exclusion zone was administered to protect others from radioactive contamination and they still cannot return to their homes to this day. There were the thousands of people killed both immediately and over time, as a result of what they call Acute Radiation Syndrome. Being a mini-series, Chernobyl doesn't have a fast paced story and is filled with a lot of slow paced scenes but full credit to the creator Craig Mazin and director Johan Renck in trying to educate the world on the Chernobyl disaster, which is a story waiting to be presented for over 3 decades.Wonderful sets of the power-plant, hospitals, offices and suburbs spoke volumes of the production design team. Costumes of the 1980s were very good but makeup department goofed up in certain places, like the makeup of premier Gorbachev which wasn't that convincing. Screenplay though slow at times eventually made up for its value of content. Chernobyl required an equally apt background score to keep the momentum of the story going, and the show-makers don't disappoint. The music throughout this five-part miniseries is intense and almost ominous. Editing most definitely was not "Chernobyl's" strong suite. Actors did their part just fine with Emily Watson in the role of a Nuclear physicist Ulana Khomyuk was simply outstanding. Jared Harris was terrific in the later episodes. I am sure "Chernobyl" would been much better if the show was entirely made in the local language with English subtitles but I agree marketing the series would have been terribly hard.Yes there are some factual errors and some historical inaccuracies as pointed out by several critics in the media in Russia and the world over. Like for an example There are a lot of people throughout the series who appear to act out of fear of being shot. This is inaccurate: summary executions, or even delayed executions on orders of a single apparatchik, were not a feature of Soviet life after the nineteen-thirties. By and large, Soviet people did what they were told without being threatened with guns or any punishment.But the fact remains that "Chernobyl" though a fictional representation of a real scientific event, aims to get us to understand the science behind that event. Like the best science fiction, it leaves you feeling like you have understood things well but in truth what we understood is very little. Chernobyl both the nuclear power plant disaster and the mini series will be remembered for a long time. Overall a must watch mini series for all age groups. It would have a better effect if binge watched in one single day preferably.	8
 still 	After my second watch this is still one of the best pieces of cinema/tv. Great pacing, great story, great acting. It's just all great. The story does kinda take a nosedive through episodes 3-4, so thats by it gets 8 stars instead of 9.8/10: amazing	8
 Frightening 	This is a truly frightening movie that highlights what happens when government, media and education all espouse the same message and squash all thoughtful and reasoned dissent	8
 Worth watching 	While i was doing my masters degree, it was included in my course and now watching as a tv series i feel it is less descriptive as it is a mini tv series. Talking about this CHERNOBYL - Its all about expert failure(scientists-science) due to the lack of decision making by experts nuclear power plant turns into nuclear bomb and blasts- as a result many people dies in Ukraine as well as in neighbouring countries by its radiation. Its worth watching series especially to those who are doing research can learn many things from it, and also helpful to the science students, social science students and other people to know the history.	8
 Amazing production design and oversimplified story! 	I have read quite a few book about Chernobyl. From 1991 edition of The Truth About Chernobyl by Grigori Medvedev, 2018 Chernobyl & Chernobyl: The History of a Nuclear Catastrophe by Serhii Plokhii, Midnight in Chernobyl by Adam Higginbotham, Voices of Chernobyl by Svetlana Alexevich to amazing Chernobyl: Manual for Survival by Kate Brown. Two of those where used for sure by screen-writer of HBO miniseries during his work on this title. My main conclusion is - life is far more interesting and complicated than fiction. I am not sure why Craig Maizn changed few important facts as first thing, Russians knew about design flaws of RMBK, and they have admitted to this in Vienna conference! There is recording where Legasov is asked by western journalist about flaws in design and answers that this type of reactor is should not be chosen for Chernobyl NPP as it's not safe! Of course he downplayed construction flaws and emphasized errors of the operators, but he didn't lie. They have lied about it, to public inside the Soviet Union - completely opposite as in series! They have chose this type of reactor as it was cheaper to build but they where not fools and lots of figures at Kurchatov knew about various flaws of design, it was game of politics, power and corporate culture (yes corporate culture as soviets where not real communists they where owners of Soviet Union, acting like huge flawed corporation with huge corrupted clerical apparatus. With hundreds of officials, apparatchiks fighting for power and influence and money). Why have they built nuclear power stations Ignalina, Smolensk, Obninsk and the Chernobyl NPP at Ukraine in the first place? Because they where selling gas, oil and high class coal to the western Europe and other countries but still needed power for internal market! HBO Chernobyl starts as good thriller but with every part it looses grip on story and thrills goes in wrong direction to flawed weak finale - naive and simplified so it hurts every thinking person who knows anything about those events! And what is worse they could stic to the facts and still have amazing movie! Why do oversimplify? Maybe its move for US internal market? Where customer is used to simple stories like Russians are to lies of their governments up to this date. But I have to admit that production design, department responsible for stage design costumes and props has done amazing job! Everything looks like it should look! I was born in 1981 in Poland, and I remember bits of this reality they where ecactly like presented in Chernobyl. Those buildings, cars, children school uniforms even shoe bags. Interiors, way they are dressed or even their haircuts! And for this kind of movie it is very important! In Poland we had softer version of regime but still reality looked prerry similar (as in almost every comunist country). I must admit that I am amazed by this, chapeu bas! Good work gus! So, 10 stars for production design, 10 for music, five for screenplay gives us 8,3 score overall. Next time please try harder when it comes to storyline do not simplyfy - real events where realy amazing amd in series you have enough tine to execute the story.	8
 Good but not the best 	The hype about it is much bigger than the quality of Series. Yes, it's very good but not the best.	8
 Why is everyone English??? 	This show is beautifully shot, the makeup is incredible, and the acting is top notch. In particular Stellan Skarsgard and Jared Harris have great chemistry together. But why the hell is everyone English/Western European? Maybe there is a good reason that I don't understand for not having a single Russian or at least Russian sounding actor, but it's hard to take people with posh English accents saying 'comrade' all the time very seriously. It's distracting to have to keep reminding myself that this isn't taking place in London, but communist Russia. Otherwise it's excellent.	8
 Impactful 	Authenticity: They did their research. The props, sets spot on (the burials in lead coffins then immersed in yards of concrete was an impactful image). Filming locations - Lithuania; Ukraine. 300,000 displaced from their homes - none have returned. The only thing lacking they should have used, as well as possible, regional actors w/appropriate languages - not contemporary English. That lack of accuracy made the series seem too staged.Quotes: "The real danger is that if we hear enough lies then we non longer recognize the truth." ...when people ask questions ...they're told to keep their minds on their labors...leave matters to the state." "No one leaves. We cut the phone lines." "When the truth offends, we lie until we can no longer remember..."Impact: The effects of radiation, radioisotopes, so quickly before your eyes, destroying tissues reminded me of Hiroshima, Nagasaki as well as the recent Japanese nuclear power plant tsunami destruction. Fortunately post event cancer rates were not as high as they could have been. But, other stressors had their effect on lifespans.	8
 Must watch 	I remember since i was a kid we were use to talk about chernobyl but to be honest i never understood how exactly happen until now... all the info it´s really well explained, maybe the actors are not stunning but fair enought with the main point of the series which is tell you the real story behind the catastrophe.	8
 Haunting 	This TV series is amazing. Such a realistic portrayal of the events that unfolded during this disaster. There is so much detail in it. The way that the Russian politicians and media are portrayed appears to be spot-on, trying to cover up the disaster even though it was going to kill thousands of people for hundreds of miles. I'm loving this series, each one is more terrifying than the last. But still can't wait for the next.	8
 Great, but not as much as it was hyped 	HBO is not capable of making a bad show. Historically accurate, as much as possible for a five-hour adaptation of one of the greatest catastrophes in history, with excellent photography and sound, good acting, and an atmosphere that the fact that it is a historical event makes even gloomier. And yet, I did not experience it as a cinematic experience, nor did I enjoy it. I was not bored, on the contrary, I was interested in what it had to say and show. But, to compare with literature, I experienced it in the way that a textbook or a scientific publication on a topic that interests you is experienced, and not as a good novel. Emotionally, It didn't touch me nearly as much as a tragedy like this should. Besides, the combination of Russian and English drove me crazy. It would be much more impressive and convincing if the whole thing was filmed in Russian, but even if it was entirely in English, it would be just fine. Combined like this, the series didn't confuse me and I was aware all the time that all the characters were Russians and Ukrainians, but it created a strange divided atmosphere which on some background level was giving the impression of watching Americans save Russians, and that got on my nerves and spoiled the experience.8/10	8
 Awesome 	Loved it strongly recommend. Sure it has some slow parts and unnecessary story lines but still worthy.	8
 #Chernobyl 	Rating - 8.8/10 Review : The behind the scenes drama and horror of the 1986 disaster at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in Ukraine. A great credit to so many who knowingly gave their lives to save not only Ukraine, but much of Europe from an even greater disaster than anyone could have imagined. What leaves us with a thought is that, is it really the radiation or the negligence and recklessness of humans far more dangerous? This series is slow burning nightmare and well worth watching. #HBO	8
 Maybe took a few liberties filling in the blanks but top notch none the less 	Let's face it folks we are talking about American screenwriter Craig Maizin being the one person responsible for getting it right for what happened with a nuclear accident that occurred on Saturday 26 April 1986, at the No. 4 nuclear reactor in the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant, near the city of Pripyat in the north of the Ukrainian SSR and then putting it all together in a five part mini series some 33 years later. I am going to assume that much of the dialogue we observe on screen between the key players is probably conjecture and without much factual evidence to back up the entire story line.Please do not assume I am a non believer because of course the tragedy and its aftermath at the Chernobyl nuclear plant and thousand of square miles away was very real and caused many lives to be either lost or severely damaged.Kudos to the set director(s) for providing their audience with a realistic environment of what most likely happened before and after the Chernobyl disaster. It made us feel the reality of what the plant employees, fire and rescue and victims must have been going through as the disaster evolved.Acting was first rate and the final episode which provided the missing details of what (and who) really caused this preventable tragedy neatly tied up any loose ends for us their audience. As stated earlier I cannot accept all of the actual series dialogue and people as factual such as Professor Ulana Khomyuk to have been singled out as bringing out the truth as the written and rolling explanations provided at the end of the series outlined the liberties that were taken to summarize the catastrophe into this mini series.Well done!	8
 It is hard to overestimate the importance of this show. 	I was born in Ukraine, 1971. Parents - Soviet "intelligentsia": mother was a high school teacher, father - medical doctor in the military. By the time it happened, we lived near one of the strategic nuclear missile site deep in Siberia. Every year, during the summer school break we used to go to Ukraine, where we spent most of vocation. It should have been the same in 1986, but Chernobyl happened. Official info reiterated that there is nothing to worry about, unless you are in the vicinity of reactor itself. But we all had learned to read between the lines and my farther used his military channels to find out EXACTLY what kind of catastrophe was taking place. He had some info from KGB guys themselves. However, he was reassured that Kiev and certain parts of Ukraine was free of the nuclear fallout and the level of the radioactivity was within normal urban level. He was also clearly warned where NOT TO GO under any circumstances: North-West of Ukraine and big part of Belarus was a heavy fall-out zone. They also mentioned some European countries. Needless to say, that nobody else was talking about this on TV. We made a decision not to change our plans for the summer, but keep in mind those warnings.Each of us had DKP-50A - dosimeter that measures the exposure dose of gamma radiation. We checked the data afterwards and all measures were withing normal limits or less. I remember though, that it was restricted to collect mushrooms or wild berries in the forests anywhere in Ukraine. Any dusty environment was considered dangerous. All water wells were sealed with plastic etc etc Mini series exceeded my expectations. Authors put quite an effort to correctly depict intricate details of this catastrophe. As other reviewers already mentioned, I had noticed so far ( 3 episodes) only minor discrepancies in the overall image of the life in the USSR. People, behavior, political relations etc. Example of such a minuscule inaccuracy - officials, let along common folks, didn't use "comrade" as frequently as it might seems from the episodes. It was very formal, official form of addressing. Usually, after first meeting, they addressed each other by the first AND middle name. In the military it was different - "comrade" + rank (as in modern Russia, BTW). I'm looking forward to see the rest. I am thankful to the authors and actors for their job. My deep bow to those who lost their lives and health, saving millions of lives. EVERYONE should watch this show and see for himself the kind of horror that can be unleashed in the nuclear war.	9
 The Black True Tale 	I am from Minsk, Belarus, same as Ulana Khomyuk from the Chernobyl series. At the time of the Chernobyl catastrophe I was eleven, a fifth-grader at school. One day at the end of April, or it might be early May, I came back home after classes and saw my mother, who was a radiologist, talking on the phone to somebody very gravely. As soon as I opened the door with my key on a strap that we used to wear around necks, and stepped in, my mother asked me covering the telephone reciever with one hand if it was raining outside. I said it was drizzling a bit in the morning. She told me to immediately go and wash my hair, and so I did. Then she poured milk into a mug, added three drops of iodine and said that I had to drink that. I remember asking her if iodine was edible, and she just said that's what she was instructed to do by a friend. I drank it. Still my mum couldn't explain anything clearly, so I felt quite unaware of what was happening for quite a long time unti bits and pieces of what had happened started to unwrap after the collapse of the USSR. When I got older I read Svetlana Alexievich's Voices from Chernobyl/Chernobyl Prayer. It was a very hard and slow read as the stories told were horrifying. And now this series, four episodes of which I binge-watched yesterday, took me back to the eighties in the Soviet Belarus. I recognize everything in this half-docu, although I've never been to Pripyat. My mom is originally from a small town on the Dnieper - the mouth of the Pripyat river - in the Gomel region in the south of Belarus, and we used to visit it every year before the Chernobyl. Then we stopped, as we felt scared and cautious, and I went there again only when I was an adult. The series left me in tears. It all looks even more frightning than we could imagine. The course of events is being told quite clearly and accurately from what I've known. The actors look pretty Russian/Belarusian/Ukranian to me, and all the locations - from the regional hospitals and the nuclear plant interior to Minsk and Moscow administrative buildings and science institutions look very authentic and detectable. Ulana Khomyuk migh be a fictional character, but there was indeed such a character - Vassili Nesterenko, a Soviet and Belorusian physicist and a former director of the Institute of Nuclear Energy at the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus (1977-1987) who informed the first secretary of the Communist Party of Belarus Nikolai Slunkov (whose BD is on April 26 by coincidence) that the dosimeters showed the elevated dose of ionizing radiation. Nesterenko also was one of the liquidators of the Chernobyl accident anc the aftermath - he threw liquid nitrogen containers from a helicopter on the burning reactor core. To do this he had to move into the middle of radioactive smoke. Despite the heavy radioactive contamination of the area, Vassili Nesterenko survived (he died in 2008). However, three out of the four passengers of his helicopter died from radioactive irradiation and contamination. And one more fact: the literal translation of Chernobyl (Chernaya Byl) is The Black True Tale.	9
 the roar of a dragon 	This is an HBO mini-series about the 1986 nuclear power plant disaster. A series of human error and a devastating design flaw would cause the worst nuclear accident in history. Deputy chairman Boris Shcherbina (Stellan Skarsgård) is put in charge. Valery Legasov (Jared Harris) is the scientist who figures out the seriousness of the situation. Ulana Khomyuk (Emily Watson) is a nuclear physicist in Minsk who detects the radiation and contributes to the solution.The most incredible aspect of the first episode is the roar of the exposed core. While I knew that the core was exposed, I never actually considered its primal roar. It breathe fire like a dragon. It blew my mind. The thesis of lies and hubris and scientific truths and real heroism is the story's beating heart. It is led by three stellar performers. Even if you think you know, this series will make you think some more. The final episode has a tough job of explaining the accident. It puts the exposition into the courtroom and it's surprising how understandable nuclear power science becomes. This is prestige television at its best.	9
 Chernobyl 	Oh God. It's stunning. I'm impressed. Good job HBO. Getting from Russia.	9
 Must Watch! 	Chernobyl is about the brave men and women who had to navigate the ridiculously scary nuclear accident at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in April of 1986. It is heartbreaking to watch as this shocking disaster unfold and even though you probably already know the story and what happens you'll still sit on the edge of your seat as tense as can be. This show will grab you from the very first episode and not let go. The attention to detail is just awesome. I can't recommend this show enough so if you're looking for a new show then give this a try, I promise you will not be disappointed. Just make sure you give yourself enough time because you're going to want to binge it as fast as you can.	9
 Excellent Mini-Series 	In April 1986, it happened two events that I will never forget: my daughter was born and USSR Chernobyl nuclear power plant exploded in the city of Pripyat. Sometime later, there was a recall of the powdered milk from Netherlands that I had at home since it was contaminated with radiation. Therefore I read and watched most of the news available about the nuclear accident in those days. Now I have just had the chance to see this excellent HBO mini-series.Divided in five episodes each with about one hour running time, "Chernobyl" seems to disclose what really happened in that fatidic night of 26 April 1986. The mini-series is realistic and gives credibility to the events showed along the days in Chernobyl, Pripyat and Moscow. The performances of the cast, highlighting the lead of Jared Harris, Stellan Skarsgård and Emily Watson, is outstanding. Despite the running time, the viewer does not feel tired or bored. This is one of the best mini-series ever made. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "Chernobyl"	9
 Very realistic and hypnotically convincing 	The first episode kicks off without any dilemma and we the viewers are as much in the dark as the characters are. The full set is the exact replica of the original town of pripyiat, so detailings are absolutely brilliant. The not knowing of how this disaster will effect all the characters and then finding out one by one is really terrifying. Looks promising and since its a mini series the plot will not wonder off into the wilderness and stick to where it's supposed to.	9
 Is there anything more dangerous than arrogance and ineptitude? 	Chernobyl is one of the greatest man made disasters in history. It was so tremendous it properly frightened the world from nuclear power. But how much did the world really know? The Soviet state of Russia was so dictatorial about information and controlling information that it was hard to know what really happened. "Chernobyl" is a tremendous miniseries that gives the world the pieces of the puzzle it has always been missing. The writer and producer, Craig Mazin, dives deep into the technical and scientific side of the story, yet dumbs it down for us viewers that aren't familiar with nuclear fission or the operations of a nuclear reactor. He finds clever ways to insert elementary explanations for us laymen to grasp the concept.But the technical part of the show was simply one aspect. Larger than the physical disaster was the state created disaster. Is there anything more dangerous than arrogance and ineptitude? That's exactly what Chernobyl was and it is a most dangerous mixture."Chernobyl" is about a disaster, but it's also about a despotic regime, arrogant ministers, and misinformed subjects. But it was also about heroism, self-sacrifice, and speaking truth to power.I've never seen a show or movie that has made me feel thoroughly sympathetic about Russia or Russians. "Chernobyl" does for Russians what "Das Boot" did for Germans and more so. "Chernobyl" is an incredible story that's told in an incredible manner about an incredible catastrophe.	9
 Terrifying and sobering - as exceptional a piece of television narrative as you're ever likely to see 	Created, written, and executive produced by Craig Mazin, Chernobyl is directed by Johan Renck as part-horror movie, part-cautionary tale, and part-political treatise. Equal parts political deconstruction and painstaking recreation of what it must have been like to live through the worst nuclear disaster in history, the show presents a terrifying, nightmare vision of how bad things can get when hard scientific facts are made subservient to political agendas, and governments strive to undermine not only scientific expertise but the very nature of truth itself (the Soviet Union was a big fan of "alternative facts" long before the GOP). Chernobyl begins and ends by asking the viewer to ponder the cost of cumulative nation-wide lies. However, it's just as interested in celebrating the heroes as it is assigning blame, and in that sense, it has an extraordinary sense of humanism.The acting is immense, the writing is incisive and terrifying, the aesthetic is exceptional, and the show was a worthy winner of no less than 10 Emmys from its 18 nominations, 7 of its 11 nominations at the British Academy Television Craft Awards, and two of its four Golden Globe nominations. All in all, Chernobyl is that rarest of beasts - a show which lives up to the hype.April 26, 1986, 1:23am; near the city of Pripyat in the north of the Ukrainian SSR. Reactor No. 4 at the Vladimir Ilyich Lenin Nuclear Power Plant (aka Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant) explodes, sending out masses of radioactive material. Fire crews are called, but neither they nor the local people have any idea of the severity of the situation. As the Central Committee tries to keep a lid on things, a commission is assembled to investigate the disaster. The commission's head is Boris Shcherbina (a career-best performance from Stellan Skarsgård), Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers, and a devout party-man. The commission's scientific expert is Valery Legasov (a mesmerising Jared Harris), deputy director of the Kurchatov Institute, who immediately realises that the accident is much more serious than the government are saying. The show opens with the explosion and then follows Legasov and Shcherbina as they investigate why it happened and unexpectedly form a strong friendship.Thematically, Chernobyl is not subtle. The opening line is "What is the cost of lies?", and this issue is front and centre for the entire five episodes. The show presents the Soviet Union as a place where lying and statecraft were one and the same, and in so doing, it illustrates what can happen when institutions of government put political ideology above objective facts, when egotistical politicians disregard everything that experts are telling them in favour of their own ill-informed theories (sound familiar?). The first episode in particular gives us some fine illustrations of a system obsessed with committees, bureaucracy, and secrecy, all built upon an unnecessarily complicated and rigid hierarchy. For example, shortly after the explosion, the plant's manager, Bryukhanov (Con O'Neill), explains to the Pripyat Executive Committee,I have spoken directly to Deputy Secretary Maryin. Maryin spoke to Deputy Chief Frolyshev, Frolyshev to Central Committee member Dolghikh, and Dolghikh to General Secretary Gorbachev. Because the Central Committee has the greatest respect for the work of the Pripyat Executive Committee, they have asked me to brief you on matters as they stand.If you think this is an exaggeration, all of these people are real, and this is precisely the sequence of how the information got from Bryukhanov to Gorbachev. As it's presented in the show, there's nothing remotely subtle about it, as we're invited to shake our heads at the ridiculousness of it all. An even more telling example of governmental secrecy occurs in the same scene, as Zharkov (Donald Sumpter), a member of the Pripyat Executive Committee states,It is my experience that when the people ask questions that are not in their own best interest, they should simply be told to keep their minds on their labour - and to leave matters of the State to the State. We seal off the city. No one leaves. We cut the phone lines. Contain the spread of misinformation. That is how you keep the people from undermining the fruits of their own labour.This speech is met with applause. There's a lot to unpack here, but the line "keep the people from undermining the fruits of their own labour" is especially telling. Essentially, "keep the people uninformed so they don't ask us to explain ourselves."And, to a certain extent, much of the rest of the show depicts how that is exactly what the government has accomplished. If there's an overriding mindset amongst the Soviet people, it's a sense of civic duty, borne of a genuine belief in socialism and total trust in the Central Committee. Not all characters share this trust, but enough of them do to make it an undeniable trope. And for the most part, the show presents this sense of duty to the State as deeply honourable, worthy of a great deal of respect. How the State elicits, manipulates and exploits these feelings is being criticised, not the feelings themselves - a vital distinction. This is seen most clearly when one contrasts the noble self-sacrifices made by multiple characters, often knowingly giving their lives for the State and for one another, with the callous way the politburo look on such sacrifices - they expect people to give their lives because lives have to be given. As Shcherbina says at one point, "you will do it because it must be done". To the Politburo, the proletariat is not a collective of individuals, it is a single body, and it can afford to lose a person here and there without any significant damage.Aesthetically, Chernobyl opens with the explosion, throwing the audience into the chaos and confusion. However, rather than placing us in the control room at the moment of the explosion, we see it through the closed window of a character who doesn't even notice it happening until the shockwave hits a couple of seconds later. It's a wholly unexpected way to begin, presenting a massive real-life disaster not from the perspective of spectacle (Deepwater Horizon (2016), I'm looking at you), but from a subjective human perspective. This immediately sets up the show's interest in people. The helicopter crash seen in the trailer is shot the same way - focusing on human reactions to the crash rather than the crash itself.As for the cinematography generally, Jakob Ihre shoots everything unfussily, with no real visual gymnastics. However, there are still moments of stark beauty and great artistry. The second episode ends with a dialogueless scene that Michael Mann would be proud of - a terrifying claustrophobic sequence shot almost entirely in pitch darkness with the only light coming from the torches carried by the men on screen. This episode also features perhaps the single most extraordinary shot in the series - a high elevation shot of Pripyat looking down at the residents being evacuated onto a fleet of buses. In the background, the power plant can be seen still burning, whilst the people and the plant are bifurcated by the flats in which they used to live. This is as good an example of thematic photography as you're likely to find.As for problems, well, if there is one, it is probably that the characters are a little too black and white - the 'good' characters are practically saintly, and the 'bad' characters are almost pure evil. Legasov, for example, is depicted as a truth-teller who disapproves of the Soviet system and cares only for the facts. In reality, he was a party man, and he initially agreed with the cover up. The same issue is apparent with Ulana Khomyuk (Emily Watson), a composite character representing the many scientists who aided Legasov. Watson is good in the role, but as written, she embodies multiple hackneyed Hollywood clichés, and if Mazin wanted a prominent female character, why not use Maria Protsenko, the architect who designed Pripyat and supervised its evacuation? In essence, many of the characters are either stupid or evil, or both, while the scientists are righteous prophets. And there's not a lot of ground in between.At its core, the show is most interested in what happens when governments stop listening to science, when every smart person in the room is telling a leader one thing, and he or she decides to ignore it based on nothing other than ideology or ego (and yes, Trump's attitude to the ever-worsening global climate crisis is very much the target). An exceptional piece of television in pretty much every way, Chernobyl is as terrifying as it is compelling, as heartbreaking as it is eye-opening.And all of this is not even to mention the dogs. I'm just not ready to talk about the dogs.	9
 Watch the podcast 	The show is amazing, but to completely understand why the writer and director, Craig Mazin, included some details, like the lady scientist, you need to listen to the HBO podcast about the show with him.The woman depicts a huge number of scientists who were involved in the whole situation and the decision to make that character female was based on the position of the women in Soviet science, where they weren't a minority like in the western scientific communities. So no, the woman didn't exist, but her character represents all those persons that were real, but couldn't appear in the show, because of the time, production, story etc. limitations.Do your homework before posting dumb reviews slamming this show for inaccuracy.	9
 Abolsute masterpiece! 	Disclaimer->not for faint-hearted.Yes, you read it right this tv series is not for faint-hearted as it has some moments which will shake you up.It is one of the best tv series ever produced. Every actor has done its job perfectly, BG score will give you chills.If you made it to the end you take a sigh of relief then a thought will hit you that what you saw in these 5 episodes happened not too long ago and thus thought will shake you to the core,how we humans have made a deadly catastrophe. But there is a ray of hope that till the good and determined men/women are here we will be saved.It's a must-watch if you can.	9
 You Feel like You might Need Iodine Tablets just Because You are Watching it 	Most people knew about the Chernobyl disaster before this show, but I doubt if many of them knew that the disaster could have rendered most of Europe uninhabitable and how people went through physical and psychological hell to prevent that from happening, how much they sacrificed to save others. In honoring those people, show does a good job and gracefully, too. But at the end, this is a TV show and let's talk about the show itself now.The best aspect of the show is the acting and the character development and the relationships between them that also has a great development. I know parts of the show is fiction, but I don't always know which parts are so. I don't know if in real life Shcherbina and Legasov had a similar relationship, but in the show, their friendship(dare I say) is the most interesting thing. The initial lack of respect for each other leaves its place for admiration and understanding of each other. Shcherbina slowly understand the science is real and how he is in over his head and starts accepting that, which makes him gradually more and more likable. The one thing bothered me is the portrayal of Dyatlov's behavior, it seems so exaggerated and caricaturized but it is similarly acted in other documentaries, who knows. Side characters add detail to the disaster and makes you think about many tragic things you might not have realized how bad they were. The young ''soldier'' who is assigned to kill the animals is a good example. Other thing the show does well is to show the invisible enemy and the exposure to the audience. Think about the cleaning of the roof, if a person stays there too long, just stays next to some coal-like lumps of debris, they will die within days. You feel extremely nervous and uncomfortable watching people shovel rubble, you feel like you might need some iodine tablets just because watching it.The show is really good but there is one unintentional irony about the whole thing, mentioning of which is gonna get me some dislikes, I fear, but in the spirit of the show, I'm not gonna refrain from speaking the truth just because some people are not gonna like it. The irony is that the show is criticizing Soviet ways of doing things, from an American perspective in a time when downplaying of a virus by an American president has cost so many lives. I'd like to remind you that Covid-19 has killed more than 200.000 Americans at the time of this entry. Even the highest estimates of Chernobyl disaster are around 90.000 and the conservative ones are around 4000 casualties. Don't get me wrong, Chernobyl is still far worse than the Covid. Although, Covid has emerged shortly after the show, that is just one example, the US has many coverups of their own. The truth is the ideology has nothing to do with the disaster, it is the culture. At least Russians downplayed the disaster for their national pride, which, of course, is wrong, but the Americans downplayed the virus for the market and the rich got richer while the rest of us got even poorer... There is some, unintentional or otherwise, capitalist propaganda in the show, which is very indirect and consists of 'oh, look! how bad communism is' and, as I said, it is so hilariously ironic.	9
 Brilliant! 	I can not overstate just how good Chernobyl really is! It's one of the best mini-series ever made, it's right up there with Band of Brothers! It absolutely lives up to all the hype and love it's gotten since it first came out! It's one of the top rated shows ever for a reason... because it's fantastic! If you haven't seen this amazing series yet then make sure you do as soon as possible!	9
 WOW 	I never really write reviews, too lazy. But I felt I had to at least throw in some lines about this show... Chernobyl is simply AMAZING. The writing, acting, sets, cinematography, the whole recreation of the plant... the devil is in the detail, and HBO absolutely nailed it. For not being a horror show, this is the best horror show I've seen in years.	9
 Historically accurate 	My husband and I decided to try this show out. I know next to nothing about nuclear power and the Chernobyl accident. I found this an important learning experience. My husband served 13 years in the US Navy as a submariner nuclear operator. As a part of nuclear school they study the Chernobyl accident: what went wrong, what mistakes were made, what good decisions were made, how they solved the problem and most importantly, what changes were made in light of the tragedy. According to my husband, this show is extremely accurate, very well done and true to the historical records and survivor testimony.	9
 Finally Something New Good and Refreshing in 2019 	Might be the first TV-Show of 2019 that I'm really interested in.Recreates the events of Chernobyl in a very bleak, brutal realistic and esentially depressing way.The Atmosphere is absolutely gripping - seldom have i felt so DESPERATE seeing events unfold and characters basically walking towards their guaranteed deaths.Added Bonus ( at least mor me ): It's some REAL Stuff. No Scifi, Fantasy, Superhero, Family, Soap, Feel Good Mash. Give it a watch - I'm pretty sure you won't regret it.Cheers.	9
 There is no need for a meltdown. HBO Chernobyl was honestly pretty good. 	It's weird to say that, as this miniseries was directed by Johan Renck and written by Craig Mazin whom best known for filming notorious cheesy music videos & writing awful comedies. Although the miniseries was criticized by the Russian Government for its so called xenophobia racism propaganda to the point that they launched a lawsuit against the filmmakers; we can at least, say that for the most part, the majority of that country civilians and US viewers found HBO 'Chernobyl' worth watching. It was so good that even many of the survivors of that tragedy approved the miniseries portrayal of events that led to the nuclear explosive, the fallout, and the harsh cleanup that came after it. For the most part, the episodes were mostly scientifically sound. However, the idea that the corium could cause an atom bomb type explosion is little exaggerated. It's not even the same type of uranium. Although, the other reactors did start fires months & years after the tragedy until 1991 where the plant was finally shut down. Nevertheless, as for the historic accuracy, the series were mostly top notch. However, why was the main protagonist Valery Legasov (Jared Harris)'s family not involve in the story!? In real life, the scientist was married with children. It was a missed opportunity to have more conflict and emotional development for him. Rather than Valery seeming a bit bland. Just think what stories they could had tell with him working hard on his duties without his disconnected family knowing the full gravitas of the disaster. It could had interesting to see how much, he able to tell them about the catastrophe and what he has to keep secret in order to keep his family safe. It would had raise the stakes of Episode 5 events a lot higher making those courtroom scenes more suspenseful & intense! Nevertheless, in real-life, Legasov was never an expert witness along with Boris Shcherbina (Stellan Skarsgård) in the trial against the supervisors of the nuclear power plant. Nor was Ulana Khomyuk (Emily Watson) whom character was fictional composite of many real life people. Regardless, it does makes more narrative sense to have them there rather than random new scientist characters. The miniseries already has too many individuals to remember. Many of them are nearly identical with their matching features and clothing. It's really hard to tell apart. Honestly, the miniseries could had cut a few more people from the show, as certain character's fate don't get resolve like Dr. Svetlana Zinchenko (Nadia Clifford) from Episode 1 or the inexperienced draftees from Episode 4. It's annoying that it didn't led anywhere. Instead, the miniseries should had focus the building of the containment sarcophagus. Don't get me wrong, I do know that the main characters had nothing to do with that project, but it's a lot more lot more heroic effort than watching a downer like soldiers shooting up dogs or victims slowly dying. If not that, at least, focus a little more time with the coal miners. They were entertaining, even if in real life, they weren't so comedic nor nude. Nevertheless, one thing that this miniseries does too much is made it seem like every task were done by the Soviet government threating people. In truth, many of the liquidators were volunteers. Regardless, the scene of soldiers being led into the roof to clean up the granite was haunting. The lack of music and the constant ticking of a Geiger counter made that scene alone, intense. As for the Bridge of Death moment. It was well filmed, so dream-like, however in truth, no visual black smoke, no ash or nuclear tan ever fell on the civilians. It's very doubtful that everybody on the bridge died from radiation poisoning due to incomplete records and the questionable reliability of witness anecdotes. It could just be an urban myth. Nevertheless, I couldn't feel sympatric for them. Others victims like Lyudmilla Ignatenko (Jessie Buckley) made me more upset than feeling empathy. Her really bad decisions when risking the livelihood of her unborn baby were truly pretty dumb. Her scenes with her husband Vasily (Adam Nagaitis) was more cringe worthy than romantic lovely. As for so-called villains. The miniseries does depicted mostly depend them well. However, they made Anatoly Dyatlov (Paul Ritter) a bit too cartoony evil to seem real. Although backstory scenes with filmed to make him look more human. They were deleted not to make the miniseries in a character study. This was probably not the right decision, as it made Anatoly seem one dimensional. Don't get me wrong, Anatoly was truly obsession in taming the atom and would go to any links to get what he wanted, even threatened employees with job termination in real life. However, the real person did had standards. He never publicly blame any of his subordinates for the mistakes that night. Instead, he blamed the poor plant design, rather than plant personnel, was primarily responsible for the accident. Regardless, for the most part, all the acting was alright. While the performers were going to speak with a vague Eastern European accent. It all changed when creators realized that their accents were distracting and sounded inappropriately comical. Nevertheless, they should had hired more performers with many ethnicities and backgrounds, in order to show how diverse the real Soviet Union was. In the end, it was still jarring to heard the Russian language written or being vocalized in the background, while Queen English is being spoken in the foreground. At least, the costumes, the exotic locations, the computer effects and the make-up all work. In the end, HBO has really sparked a renewed interest in the disaster, with many people coming forward on social media and recounting their stories about it. It has also triggered a surge in tourism for the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone. Like the caterpillar in the end of Episode 5. Hopefully life will one day recovered there. Overall: The miniseries is cerebral somber masterpiece. One worth being exposed to.	9
 Fantastic Mini-series 	I really enjoyed the series. It really takes you through the events in a way that explains the kind of urgency and tragedy that can happen when working with science. I felt like this series did everything right, save the fact that their was not nearly enough actual Russian/Ukrainian actors in this series as a whole. Especially among the Russian command. Whom I recognized many of the British actors. Which kinda killed the atmosphere a little for me. But all is fair in Love and Warfare and this series did a great job of showing us that grey area in between. And how the aspirations of the few can muddy an entire mixture. My favorite part of this series was the scientific breakdown of the event the show is based around. While I am only a laymen when it comes to nuclear fission and the history surrounding Chernobyl, this was a great introduction and very informative (even if it was dramatized). Overall worth a watch I give 9/10 thnx for reading.	9
 Masterpiece ! 	33 years after the catastrophic disaster of Chernobyl nuclear plant in Russia , HBO comes up with a mini-series , dramatizing the true story of one of the worst man-made catastrophes in history. The miniseries focuses on the nuclear plant disaster that occurred in Soviet Ukraine in April 1986, revealing how and why it happened, and telling the stories of those people who helped and died in tackling the disaster, and the Soviet cover up.Directly from E01 , the series gots it's speed as it starts on the day of the disaster. There are few moments of the series where they had to break down everything , we are not a Nuclear Scientist , we are just audience . They had to break down to the audience what Fission is, about RBMk Reactor, what a nuclear reactor does , what radiation does & they just simply does that , and the end of those monologues you understand how thing works . They gives as a vision of almost every thing . This show is a graphic thing , seems very real when you watch . One genius of thing this show does is that graphic thing , in E03 that hospital scene , those bodies , those make-ups . The pain seemed real , Radiation Positioning might not have looked that real before on screen . The tension building , sound of that geiger counter leaves audience attached to it .However the theme must be acknowledged it how lack of information , mis-information leads to the bad thing & ofcourse the manipulations of USSR .The final episode , Vichnaya Pamyat (currently rated 9.9 on IMDb) , shows us a captivating court thing , all of it lining up together . That's how the system works . It solves every question that the tragedy created , how a RBMK reactor core explodes to how AZ-5 button works .Jared Harris & Stellan Skarsgard delivers the best acting one could ever ask for. It makes thing more relatable . The acting , the background music , the story telling , entertains you with never lossing sight of the tragedy .It was a perfect tribute .	9
 Balanced and very well told. 	Thankfully this show did not go down the anti-nuclear route and sensationalized the whole event, it pretty much stuck to the facts as we know it. Ok there was some dramatic license taken with the court case and legasovs final denouement, and of course the creation of the fictional female scientist, but in large it was very accurate. Particularly impressive was the reconstruction of the liquidators on the roof, watch the real videos and you will see how accurate they tried to portray the events. But perhaps the most impressive part of the show was how they managed to explain the accident, it's not a simple thing and TV (and certainly movies) often grossly simplify complex events, but they took it on brilliantly and despite lots of books on the subject this is probably the best lay mans explanation there is.	9
 You cannot miss this 	I was born 2 years after Chernobyl so I always knew what happened there from my parents. We live in Poland,so luckily we were spared the worst of the radiation but my mum told me that our government also kept shut about the catastrophe. Despite knowing what happened in general,I still had goosebumos while watching and was extremely pissed at the politicians who tried to hide it. Very captivating mini series. Just remember to keep some chocolate close by,you may need it to cheer yourself up.	9
 Breathtaking 	One of the best mini series I've ever seen. The writers did a great job of making complex things easily understandable for the viewer. The acting was also amazing. A must watch!	9
 really good 	Chernobyl is a 5 episode mini-series recounting the Chernobyl disaster, with the first 4 episodes recounting the disaster from multiple viewpoints, and the 5th summarizing it via a trial of the three main people responsible for pushing a nuclear plant test that simply should not have been done. Indeed, the plant itself was an accident waiting for the right circumstances to happen.On a whole, it's a really good series. Jared Harris as the principal nuclear physicist serving as technical lead and Stellan Skarsgård as the "one good bureaucrat" are simply exceptional in their roles. The 4th episode drags a bit with a story about soldiers killing dogs and other pets that have been irradiated. Yes, it's sad, and I suppose the point was to show those "little stories" that would fall through the cracks. Still, it slowed the pace of the mini-series as a whole. The mini-series actually could have used a bit more of that as I thought it was interesting, but only up to a point and I think they just went a bit too far. That said, it's a minor issue.The authenticity of the setting is also remarkable. Granted, I don't know what mid-80s Pripyat and the surrounding area looks like, but it looked genuine to me. Pacing was great (outside of that 4th episode) and I couldn't wait to start the next one. The last episode was a fitting and wonderful end to the series. It's not meant to be a documentary, but it's certainly more than "inspired by true events". I guess you can call it an historical drama and it's one of the best I've seen.I hesitated between and 8 and 9 on this. It would have been a 9 had they made a better 4th episode; at the same time, it doesn't feel fair to drop a point for one story of one episode (the other major story about using a lunar robot, then bio-robots to clean the roof was spectacular). In the end, I decided on a 9 given I think it's one of those "you have to see it" type TV series, whereas an 8 to me is a "solid and really enjoyable" but not something that would make a bucket list.	9
 Biopic of Disaster. Actually 9.5/10 	This Miniseries clearly explains u each & every bids of Chernobyl disaster. It explains how it works, how disaster occurred, how people are affected, how they controlled it, wat price they payed to control it, results of the disaster, etc.,etc.... It creates a fear in u,wat if our nearby nuclear reacter explodes.A respect for those who sacrificed thier life to not led it go further more worse.	9
 Beautiful, nuff said 	Beautifully shot, beautifully made with a beautiful story. It has all the monikers of a all time great tv show. In this case, I will tell you to believe the hype. This is a truly amazing show and something you should watch.	9
 They got it right 	I was born in Pripyat. I was four years old when the accident happened. Watching it is more horrifying than living through it. We didn't know what we were dealing with. It's not like a hurricane or an earthquake that takes you by surprise and causes massive destruction. Here everything looked normal, that day was just like any other day and yet you were told to abandon everything and just leave. The immediate casualties of the accident were not huge, but it had an enormous impact on lives of hundreds of thousands of people. I often think what my life would be like if this didn't happen.This mini series is a masterpiece, perfect in every way. Some people are complaining here that the actors don't speak Russian. I'm a native speaker of Russian and Ukrainian, I don't want the actors to speak Russian. You get so consumed by this show you stop noticing what language they speak.It's not a documentary, so not each and every detail is accurate, yet I would still call it authentic. The creators got the important stuff right... Both of my parents worked at Chernobyl plant, I grew up hearing stories and versions of what happened. I think this show is the best depiction of the Chernobyl disaster and the stories of its victims. This show is to remind all of us of the cost of lies.	10
 Goosebumps and tears 	A Belarusian here, born in 1983. Parents were scientists, knew everything on the 27th. Chernobyl is never forgotten in Belarus and all the details of the tragedy (a flawed reactor, Soviet style apparatchiks in control, a failed experiment, a clumsy cover-up) are widely known. Yet the series managed to depict the horrible events in a way never before seen. A definite tour de force, I had to literally pause a couple of times to comprehend what had just been shown. Goose bumps and tears, what a masterpiece. Likvidatory - heroes, who contained Chernobyl - should never be forgotten.Grim Soviet atmosphere depicted accurately apart from some very very minor details. Surprised that a Swedish director who made music videos for Madonna and his English-speaking cast managed to portray Chernobyl events better, than anybody from the countries most traumatized by the explosion.The tragedy will live forever because of this haunting masterpiece, what a brilliant creative achievement.	10
 I highly recommend this film! 	Hi. I'm from Kiev, Ukraine. I was born in 1983 and I was 2 and a half years when the Chernobyl catastrophe happened. I remember 1980s and I can tell that the authors of this film made a GREAT job to show every detail of what the world look for is in the times of Soviet union. The telephones, the clothes, the haircuts, the cracked paint on the window sills, even the door glass is similar to what I remember. There are couple of things which seemed weird to me: firefighters didn't have the red stars on their helmets, and most of the time people use the short forms of the names when they talk to each other (Vasya, not Vasiliy, Lyuda, not Lyudmila). But the most important thing that this film shows is that the soviet authoritiies lied to people about this catastrophe all the time. For example, in Kiev which is 130 km from Chernobyl, nobody knew about the high levels of radiation till the middle of May, they even held a parade on the first of May, when the level of radiation in Kiev was 100 times higher than normal (iodine131 isotope) and nobody gave us the iodine pills. Everyone who tried to tell the truth was called the provocateur and could even be fired from work. I highly recommend to watch this film. This is a tribute to all the heroes who lost their lives in a radioactive flame and saved all of us from death.	10
 No hero wakes up wanting to die 	As my mother tells it, the weather was quite nice, the sky was clear without any sign of clouds in the spring of 1986. It was like any other day behind the iron curtain. Not a lot to do but not a lot to worry about either, a long day of boring work after dropping the kid off at the kindergarten, just to pick him up again at the afternoon, just like yesterday or any other day since the beginning of time. This is why she did not understand why the old lady (who she very much liked because she seemed to love children and had that neverstopping smile) told everyone at the nursery school not to let the children out to play, don't feed them the veggies and don't let them drink the milk we had for every lunch before that day. We lived in a hungarian town close to the croatian border and the life in that town was pretty simple apart from that day. We lived 900 kms from Chernobyl and we did not even know that place exists until 3 days later.Apparently a man who did not introduce himself called most of the schools and nurseries in the country and told them the same message. A lot of teachers did not take it seriously as he did not mention any details, just the warning: do not let the children out, do not feed them any vegetables which grows overground (potatoes are fine), do not let them drink anything apart from bottled liquids.Noone knew what it was about. Noone knew what danger we are in. I assume this is why it was such a shock. The life was simple and we were not supposed to know stuff. We were not supposed to be afraid, maybe only because the capitalist pigs over the iron curtain. But something changed that day. A faceless, nameless man risked his life and called everyone he could to warn them about Chernobyl. News like this is not easy to contain, soon everyone was talking about what could happen and why. Is it a nuclear attack? Is it the CIA? Are they looking at us from satelites? Are they bombing us?It was the first crack on the Iron Curtain. Not Reagan's stupid monologue, not the thousands of fleeing east-germans, not the soviets economy's ridiculous debts. Entire nations realized their lives mean nothing, millions felt betrayed. A man with no name defeated the Soviet regime with a few telephone calls.We still don't know who that man was. After 30 years and a few inquiries we have no clue who risked his life to prevent thousands of deaths and millions of illnesses. Some historians are adamant the person was executed and vanished without a trace, some say noone found him at all. All I know I have to be grateful for him. We all have to be. He saved a nation. Sure, we could survive the radioactive cloud the mild wind blew over our country but when I look at my two children who are the same age I was back then I am pretty sure I am not willing to take any risks. Would you?Dear anonymous man who defied a violent regime to save millions: We will forever be grateful. Dear ukranian workers whose names we will never know: We will forever be grateful. The workers whose names we know: We will forever be grateful.This show tells a story noone should forget and this is the right way to tell it. Bluntly. How the man with no name told us.	10
 So far looks excellent 	Im ukrainian, born in 1988 and still live here. I want to give the authors of this show a big thumbs up for the whole set they have made. Every little detail of the buildings, flats, uniforms, clothes, cars, especially big thumbs up for ambulance "RAFiks" (RAF-2203), almost everything is 99% identical to the real things of the time, just a few mistakes on some signs that have been written in a mix of russian\ukrainian and some other unknown language, but it all doesnt matter, because what i have seen previously in other movies about soviets were so bad that its not even comparable to this. The other thing is this "comrade" word that almost everyone throws while calling or shouting at someone, its just one of those stereotypes thats still left in western world, in reality no one in an everyday life talked like that, especially not in Ukraine in 1986, it was mainly used in 'official' language in meetings and media, people just talked like you and i would today. Apart from this two small inaccuracies i am shocked at the level of production of this show, it is very good, no one outside of Ukraine has ever made a good tv series about Chernobyl before, i have a weird feeling it was made by someone from USSR, because there was zero moments where i cringed watching it. It was mostly "spot on", "spot on", "wow, spot on". Can't wait for the next episode!!!	10
 Incredible 	My husband grew up near Kyiv and his father drove one of the buses that evacuated the civilians from Pripyat. I have heard his stories of the disaster; the people's concerns, fears and sacrifices. We watch this together and he is amazed at it's authenticity. The set detail, the way the Soviet regime hierarchy functioned, the denial and secrecy surrounding the disaster. He tried (as he usually does when watching a Western production based in or about that part of the world) to find errors or inconsistencies but has not been able to - yet.The acting is impeccable by all, the filming is top notch, the sounds used to heighten the tension versus music. The way they are able to capture that exact feeling of anxiety, horror, disgust and sadness all rolled into one is admirable.I have completed the series and it definitely ranks as one of the best. This story has been waiting to be told and there is hands down no one better than HBO to do it. Russia has said it intends to produce its own Chernobyl program, it will be interesting to compare the two. Theirs will purportedly label the CIA as the perpetrator....	10
 Bleak, Unsettling, Haunting All Throughout 	'Chernobyl' is scarier than most horror movies in that it is a dramatization of actual, real-life horror experienced by thousands of people on that fateful April 1986 morning and the years that followed. This disaster has haunted the nation, Europe, and the rest of mankind more than three decades later. And that creeping dread permeates the whole show. It's difficult to watch. But it certainly makes it a must-watch.	10
 Unbelievable 	I'm Russian. Amazing work! Newer, you hear this, never ever before western cinematography made such authentic film. I speak about details: cars, kitchens, clothes...	10
 HBO did it again! 	The first episode somehow surpassed my expectations for what this TV Show would do with the biggest nuclear disaster ever! Without giving any spoilers besides the obvious, the cinematic quality is unbelievable! I found myself looking at many transition scenes with disbelief, a complete state of shock- that's how good the first episode of HBO's mini-series "Chernobyl" was! The writing wasn't LEGENDARY but it was great, but most importantly, consistent! Every actor did an amazing job at portraying each character and their feelings, which ultimately, led to a even greater ambience. When the episode ended, I was left with a feeling like if I was in Chernobyl! I felt like I was contaminated by radiation. Although that might sound silly, I really felt unwell after watching "Chernobyl"! That just shows how incredibly effective the first episode was on displaying the horrific events that took place in Chernobyl, and how many lives were absolutely destroyed and affected following the disaster. So far, a must-watch!	10
 Exemplary 	CHERNOBYL is an excellent depiction of the infamous nuclear explosion that occurred in Ukraine back in 1986. I've previously read a book on the topic so I had some understanding of what took place, but this miniseries is even better. Over five carefully-paced episodes it really gets into the heart of the matter, depicting the science and circumstances behind the explosion and the failures that led to it happening in the first place. It also extensively depicts the fall-out and clean-up operations that were required afterwards. On top of all this, it's a character-focused drama in which the human cost is always at the forefront. Three exemplary performances from Jared Harris, Stellan Skarsgard and Emily Watson lead the way and the smaller roles are equally special. Doubtlessly the best TV show of the year, and one of the best of all time.	10
 Just watch it (!) 	30th of April, 1986, was a cloudless, sunny day in southern Poland. I was 13 years old, and went to school as everyday. Just before noon teachers started running, closing all doors and windows, and telling us to stay inside, that the air is radioactive. One hour later we were given Lugol's iodine (still remember its awful taste). There was discussion if we can safely go home. No one knew any details. Composition of beautiful weather and gloomy atmosphere was unreal. Years later, I know what was happening in the background. In morning hours of April 28th one of the stations of Polish Central Laboratory for Radiation Protection (CLRP) in northeast Poland measured radiation exceeding normal level half million times.Two hours later they knew it was reactor explosion, somewhere. Government crisis meeting took all 28th/29th night. Polish prime minister called his Russian counterpart, only to hear he "knows nothing" about any nuclear accident. By 3am "Polish Legasov", prof. Zbigniew Jaworowski from CLRP was called to join the meeting, and he achieved impossible - convinced Polish communists that the worst should be expected. They decided to give iodine to all children and suspend production of milk and vegetables countrywide, starting from the next day (east part of the country first). Chernobyl - I've never written movie review. I've never seen such an accurate depiction of how communist country operates. How it looks. I was literally time-traveled over 30 years back. Incredible. 100/10. You know what is most chilling (for me)? 33 years ago communist Polish government, by some miracle, managed to react in relatively short time. Today - it's impossible. There are no iodine stockpiles. The network of Polish CLRP's 140 measuring stations was dismantled. What about other countries? I don't know, but... Last remark - my grandmother died in early 1987. Rapidly developing thyroid cancer. What exactly caused it? I guess I'll never know.	10
 Cracking. 	Grim is an understatement.This is one of the very few shows that I'd bless with a ten star.It is subtle considering the subject but at the same time does not flinch in away from the harsh and immediate reality.I'll never love this show but I will forever have had my eyes opened by it.Shame on the Heathen that gave it 6/10 because of the English accents.	10
 Now you look like the minister of coal! 	In terms of series expression, it moves on in a style that we can call "documentary-drama". But there is a serious scenario success here. The visual and verbal emotions of the series we watch are sometimes causing anxiety, sometimes causing anger and sometimes we cannot prevent our eyes from being moistened. The gloomy atmosphere of the Soviets is very well reflected. The background music supports this. It has a cinematic narrative. You feel the catastrophe up to your buttonhole. Nevertheless, acting certainly takes the business to a much higher level. Chernobyl is now at the top of the "Top Rated TV Shows" list in IMDb. This is a significant improvement, even if you are a person who does not consider the IMDb score very much. Such a great success in a short time... It really deserves a round of applause. 10/10	10
 Amazing 	I work as an apprentice within the nuclear industry and I have to say without a doubt that this was the most horrifying thing I have watched in a long time. This isn't due to fact that the show is actually scary per say but it's is because the whole thing is true. This actually happened. Apart of my course so far has been learning about chernobyl so I know in detail the progression of these events and even still I was shocked the way that the show demonstrated how ignorant and naiive they where to what had actually happened.As far as the show goes the way it is desplayed on screen is mesmerising I can't even begin to imagine how it felt being there at the time wondering what was actually going on but I believe this show is as close a representation as we will get. The acting is excellent you almost forget you are watching a show as the reactions and emotions displayed feel incredibly genuine and beleiveable.The science included is spot. From my knowledge of how they understood nuclear physics and radiation almost 40 years ago this is very well done whoever was part of the research team was no doubt a veteran within the nuclear industry and it shows as I cannot fault any of the information that is passed across and it is done so in a fair amount of detail.Overall this is an excellent show so far and I can only imagine it will get better as it goes on and without a doubt will shine a light on the tragic events of what is easily the greatest human error of modern times. I highly recommend this to anyone who is unaware of the consequences of this event and hopefully this will showcase the safety precautions it had inflicted upon the modern nuclear industry as that is just as important as showing what went wrong.	10
 Shocking. 	This will go down in history. This will be shown in schools. Truly shocking and extremely realistic. And that's coming from an ex-Soviet citizen. I was amazed how detailed everything was, even the representation of the evil Soviet regime. Totally on point. And that was just the first episode, can't wait for more.	10
 So far, so great 👍👍👍 	Only two episodes in, and I'm totally hooked. Hard to believe that these things actually took place, and only 35 years ago. It's really quite frightening. Fans of bio-disaster films such as "Contagion" and "Outbreak" will be instant fans, but to be honest, "Chernobyl" offers something much more than others have within this sub-genre. The political and non-fiction elements give it a leg up, and the acting from Jared Harris and Stellan Skarsgard is excellent as usual. If the rest of this series follows suit, then this is something that you're not gonna want to miss.	10
 Incredibly accurate 	I grew up in soviet Russia, born in 1977 and this is incredibly accurate. Starting with the explosion, the incident itself, the way soviet politicians and the media handled (covered) it - and ending with all the little tiny details.I would never expect a Western TV show to go to this amount of detail portraying life in the soviet era. AND being so brutally honest about the accident itself. Also no fluff, no pathos, and no stereotypes like "Russian bears with kalashnikovs playing balalaikas on Red Square" - just brutal truth.Thank you for thatBorn in 1977 I still have vivid memories about the catastrophe, and everything - and I mean everything - in this show has been incredibly authentic. And mesmerizing. This thing keeps you on the edge of your seat and coming back to the real world after watching an episode is like waking up - "wait, what? where am I?"P.S. I remember watching the news with my mom that day. The anchor briefly mentioned something about a "minor incident with 7 people injured in the fire". Then within weeks rumors have spread (rumors, not the official news), that the whole town of Pripyat is being evacuated. And we better keep our windows shut. Or better yet spend the summer somewhere far East.I also remember that "chernobyl liquidator" was like a badge of honor for decades in Russia, Belarus, Ukraine and the whole Eastern-European "block", both officially and informally. These people were really honored. If you hear someone's a "chernobyl liquidator" - you give up your seat on the bus. You give way in the waiting line. I mean the whole waiting line just silently moves over, and one person walks in (which always made them shy).P.P.S. I also wish some of the younger Russians see this show and stop effing romanticizing soviet era. You guys have no idea.	10
 Painful To Watch, But Essential Viewing 	An infamous world event captured in a riveting series. Chernobyl provides so much depth and wider information into the disaster by following the various lives and stories of those involved, the plot remains gripping beyond the event itself, and the aftermath takes complete scrutiny.Deeply unsettling and painful to watch at times, the effects of radiation poisoning are explicitly shown in all its horrors, and as horrible as it is to see, the makeup and costuming department must be commended. Everything in the series is visually stunning, staying truthful to history whilst always creating the correct atmosphere on screen.The truth is ultimately as sinister and concerning as any fictional horror/drama could envision. The politics involved at every step are explained well without removing from the intelligence of the dialogue. The addition of one character is justifiable to remove a cinematic mess of attempting to include dozens of science within a coherent script. Remaining close to the facts only adds to the power of the series.The casting is brilliant, the addition of multiple UK comedic actors in such serious roles only improves it, with the late Paul Ritter particularly standing out in his performance. None of the cast can be flawed, and there is no ambiguity over unnecessarily dodgy accents.Whilst baring all, the Chernobyl series remains respectful, yet damning to those responsible. It is historically important, and an absolute must-watch.	10
 Catastrophic, breathtaking, accurate 	My parents were located 120 miles north of the accident. Before any word got out, they told me they remember seeing a film of dust in the sky. Little after that - when word got out, everyone in schools - jobs - work, was told to drink iodine pills daily. It's crazy to see the accuracy of this show. I watched it with my parents and their eyes started to water because to this day they cannot believe this happened. It's the only show that leaves me wanting more. I'm happy they are only making 5 episodes, that can only mean this show was meant to show the accuracy, and nothing more. No hollywood BS.. no 'monsters' (chernobyl diaries), just straight facts. The acting of this show is mentally insane - you literally feel like youre not watching a show , but youre literally there. HBO has created a masterpeice, and I'm glad more people will realize what Chernobyl is. I'm surprised about how many people dont even know about it. So, thank you HBO for making this GEM.	10
 A life lesson. What is the cost of lies? 	This TV Show is a life lesson. They could make a Documentary with a narrator, you'll know the exact same story. But will it be this effective? Absolutely not!They've managed to do a unique job. You are experiencing the event nearly as those who really did. Sadly this event was a terrible accident. You're thinking the cause of this some arrogant guy. But actually the whole thing is started with a simple lie. I bet you can't forget the line "Every lie we debt to the truth, sooner or later that debt is paid." because it perfectly fits for the situation. This TV show is not your usual "Based on a True Story" type of TV show. You're not watching a TV show based on an event. You're just experiencing it, with it causes, problems and all.And to bring that realistic atmosphere, you should make the best technical details.The Art Direction & Set Decoration is just way beyond perfect. This brings so much detail to the story, visually after Cinematography this is the most important thing in a TV Show or a movie. They've managed extraordinary, beyond perfect, revolutionary job in this.Cinematography is also quite amazing. Lightning, color grading, angels, movements are just perfect.Costume design is also perfect, nearly everything is perfect after all we're watching a high budget HBO serie. But makeup is beyond perfect, how you managed to do that? I don't know what you think but I found that makeup so effective!Acting performances are also great. Well chosen actors takes your attention for real. Nearly every character chosen well. Legasov, Boris, Khomyuk, Dyatlov and even more. How can they find those amazing actors that fits so perfectly for the character?	10
 Excellence in every detail 	I am Russian. I was 16 when this happened. First few days, we, who lived far from Chernobyl, did not care a lot. There were no real information. Just some "accident". Nobody worried. Them, rumors started spreading. Western radio stations transmitted more accurate information. Finally, officials had to admit the horrible facts. And that was beginning of the real "Glasnost" in the USSR, eventually, beginning of its end. My father was among people who were called to Chernobyl. Few years ago he had cancer. Now in remission. God bless him and all others for saving lives of millions, sacrificing their own.I don't bother any British accent, like some critics. They speaking to my heart on the language of my heart.Repeating here title of the first episode: "Vechnaya Pamyat"	10
 Phenomenal 	They say reality is far more horrifying than fiction, this proves it.	10
 For the uninitiated, this is the most thorough depiction ever! 	So far, the show has been amazing!! As a scientist who is fascinated with nuclear physics/chemistry, ionizing radiation and a voracious reader of anything dealing with atomic sciences, I knew I would love it immediately. I want others to know just how accurate the series tries to portray what actually happened - it is the closest thing so far made. The creators did extensive research to try and show just how messed up the Chernobyl accident was. I try and read anything that discusses this topic, and have read most things, and the level of detail is phenomenal. I highly suggest anyone curious about Chernobyl to watch this, pronto.	10
 It is almost a documentary, reconstruction of events is so precise 	I watched a lot of material on this matter, and living all my life in post-soviet Ukraine, I was struck by how well they recreated the atmosphere of the soviet town and attention given to details. Not to mention excellent actor performance. It is dark, and almost hard to watch but so was the real story. Highly recommend, top!	10
 A duty of memory that was necessary 	After seeing the first episode of Chernobyl I feel contaminated by radiation. Stating, acting, photography ... everything is amazing. We go through a lot of emotions, but the ones that dominate are disgust, horror and sadness. Absolutely brilliant.	10
